quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk............................... 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to foreign currency, interest rate, and securities price risks. a portion of these risks is hedged, but fluctuations could impact the company's results of operations and financial position. 25 the company hedges the exposure of accounts receivable and a portion of anticipated revenue to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. the company monitors its foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the overall effectiveness of its foreign currency hedge positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. fixed income securities are subject to interest rate risk. the portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment grade securities to minimize credit risk. the company routinely uses options to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk in the event of a catastrophic increase in interest rates. many securities held in the company's equity and other investments portfolio are subject to price risk. the company uses options to hedge its price risk on certain highly volatile equity securities. the company uses a value-at-risk (var) model to estimate and quantify its market risks. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. assumptions applied to the var model at june 30, 2000 and june 30, 2001 include the following: normal market conditions; monte carlo modeling with 10,000 simulated market price paths; a 97.5% confidence interval; and a 20-day estimated loss in fair value for each market risk category. accordingly, 97.5% of the time the estimated 20- day loss in fair value would be nominal for foreign currency denominated investments and accounts receivable at june 30, 2000 and june 30, 2001, and would not exceed $211 million and $363 million at june 30, 2000 and june 30, 2001 for interest-sensitive investments or $1.02 billion and $520 million at june 30, 2000 and june 30, 2001 for equity securities. 26quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to foreign currency, interest rate, and equity price risks. a portion of these risks is hedged, but fluctuations could impact the company results of operations and financial position. the company hedges the exposure of accounts receivable and a portion of anticipated revenue to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. the company monitors its foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the overall effectiveness of its foreign currency hedge positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. fixed income securities are subject to interest rate risk. the portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment grade securities to minimize credit risk. the company routinely uses options to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk in the event of a catastrophic increase in interest rates. many securities held in the company equity and other investments portfolio are subject to price risk. the company uses options to hedge its price risk on certain highly volatile equity securities. the company uses a value-at-risk (var) model to estimate and quantify its market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in fair value of the company portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the model used for currencies and equities is geometric brownian motion, which allow incorporation of optionality of these exposures. for interest rates, the mean reverting geometric brownian motion is used to reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices over time revert to maturity value. value-at-risk is calculated by, first, simulating 10,000 market price paths over 20 days for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. each resulting unique set of equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates is applied to substantially all individual holdings to re-price each holding. the 250 th worst performance (out of 10,000) represents the value-at-risk over 20 days at the 97.5 th percentile. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. a substantial amount of the company equity portfolio is held for strategic purposes. the company attempts to hedge the value of these securities through the use of derivative contracts such as collars. the company has incurred substantial impairment charges related to certain of these securities in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001. such impairment charges have been incurred primarily for strategic equity holdings that the company has not been able to hedge. the var amounts disclosed below are not necessarily reflective of potential accounting losses, as they are used as a risk management tool and reflect an estimate of potential reductions in fair value of the company portfolio. losses in fair value over a 20-day holding period can exceed the reported var by significant amounts and can also accumulate over a longer time horizon than the 20-day holding period used in the var analysis. the var numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, and equity risks. these var numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. historical data is used to estimate var. given reliance on historical data, var is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. an inherent limitation in var is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. 18 / msft 2002 form 10-k table of contents part ii item 7a, 8 the following table sets forth the var calculations for substantially all of the company positions: in millions as of june 30, year ended june 30, 2002 risk categories 2002 2001 average high low interest rates $ 472 $ 363 $ 435 $ 535 $ 333 currency rates 310 58 162 310 58 equity prices 602 520 584 757 488 the total var for the combined risk categories is $908 million at june 30, 2002 and $759 million at june 30, 2001. the total var is 34% less at june 30, 2002 and 19% less at june, 30 2001 than the sum of the separate risk categories for each of those years in the above table, due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. the reasons for the change in risk in portfolios include: larger investment portfolio size, higher foreign exchange exposure due to stronger non-u.s. currencies, and asset allocation shifts.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 18quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to foreign currency, interest rate, and fixed income and equity price risks. a portion of these risks is hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations and financial position. we hedge a portion of anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the overall effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. fixed income securities are subject to interest rate risk. the portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. securities held in our equity and other investments portfolio are subject to price risk, and are generally not hedged. however, we use options to hedge our price risk on certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. we use a value-at-risk (var) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the model used for currencies and equities is geometric brownian motion, which allows incorporation of optionality with regard to these risk exposures. for interest rate risk, the mean reverting geometric brownian motion is used to reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices revert to maturity value over time. value-at-risk is calculated by, first, simulating 10,000 market price paths over 20 days for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. each page 33 table of contents part ii item 7a resulting unique set of equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates is then applied to substantially all individual holdings to re-price each holding. the 250 th worst performance (out of 10,000) represents the value-at-risk over 20 days at the 97.5 percentile confidence level. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. certain securities in our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. we hedge the value of a portion of these securities through the use of derivative contracts such as put-call collars. in these arrangements, we hedge a security equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most or all of the benefits of the security appreciation above the sold call strike, in exchange for premium received for the sold call. we also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. we have incurred material impairment charges related to these securities in prior periods. the var amounts disclosed below are used as a risk management tool and reflect an estimate of potential reductions in fair value of our portfolio. losses in fair value over a 20-day holding period can exceed the reported var by significant amounts and can also accumulate over a longer time horizon than the 20-day holding period used in the var analysis. var amounts are not necessarily reflective of potential accounting losses, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with u.s. gaap. the var numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, and equity risks. these var numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. we use historical data to estimate var. given the reliance on historical data, var is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. an inherent limitation in var is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. the following table sets forth the var calculations for substantially all of our positions: (in millions) year ended june 30, 2004 risk categories 2003 2004 average high low interest rates $ 448 $ 298 $ 625 $ 817 $ 298 currency rates $ 141 $ 207 $ 217 $ 326 $ 117 equity prices $ 869 $ 773 $ 969 $ 1,174 $ 770 the total var for the combined risk categories is $835 million at june 30, 2004 and $987 million at june 30, 2003. the total var is 35% less at june 30, 2004 and 32% less at june, 30 2003 than the sum of the separate risk categories for each of those years in the above table, due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. the change in the absolute value of var is primarily due to asset allocation shifts and portfolio growth. page 34 table of contents part ii item 8quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to foreign currency, interest rate, fixed income, equity and commodity price risks. a portion of these risks is hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations and financial position. we hedge a portion of anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the overall effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. fixed income securities are subject to interest rate risk. the portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. securities held in our equity and other investments portfolio are subject to price risk, and are generally not hedged. however, we use options to hedge our price risk on certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. we use a value-at-risk (var) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the model used for currencies and equities is geometric brownian motion, which allows incorporation of optionality with regard to these risk exposures. for interest rate risk, the mean reverting geometric brownian motion is used to reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices revert to maturity value over time. var is calculated by, first, simulating 10,000 market price paths over a specified period of time for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. each resulting unique set of equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates is then applied to substantially all individual holdings to re-price each holding. the 250th worst performance (out of 10,000) represents the var over a specified period of time at the 97.5 percentile confidence level. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. certain securities in our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. we hedge the value of a portion of these securities through the use of derivative contracts such as put-call collars. in these arrangements, we hedge a security equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most or all of the benefits of the security appreciation above the sold call strike, in exchange for the premium received for the sold call. we also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. we have incurred material impairment charges related to these securities in previous periods. the var amounts disclosed below are used as a risk management tool and reflect an estimate of potential reductions in fair value of our portfolio. losses in fair value over the specified holding period can exceed the reported var by significant amounts and can also accumulate over a longer time horizon than the specified holding period used in the var analysis. var amounts are not necessarily reflective of potential accounting losses, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with u.s. gaap. the var numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, equity and commodity risks. these var numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. we use historical data to estimate var. given the reliance on historical data, var is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. an inherent limitation in var is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. page 39 table of contents part ii item 7a management began using a 1-day var for internal risk measurement purposes effective for the quarter-ended march 31, 2005. the effect of changing from 20-day var to 1-day var was not material and there have been no modifications to the assumptions or parameters within the model. the following table sets forth the 1-day var for substantially all of our positions. (in millions) year ended june 30, 2005 risk categories 2004 2005 average high low interest rates $ 67 $ 88 $ 68 $ 94 $ 37 currency rates 46 52 36 55 12 equity prices 173 164 166 187 141 commodity prices 14 6 14 the total 1-day var for the combined risk categories was $195 million at june 30, 2005 and $187 million at june 30, 2004. the total var is 39% less at june 30, 2005 and 35% less at june, 30 2004 than the sum of the separate risk categories for each of those years in the above table, due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. page 40 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 12 risk factors challenges to our business model may reduce our revenues and operating margins. our business model has been based upon customers paying a fee to license software that we developed and distributed. under this license-based software model, software developers bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution of their products. we believe the license-based software model has had substantial benefits for users of software, allowing them to rely on our expertise and the expertise of other software developers that have powerful incentives to develop innovative software that is useful, reliable, and compatible with other software and hardware. in recent years page 12 table of contents part i item 1a certain open source software business models have evolved into a growing challenge to our license-based software model. open source commonly refers to software whose source code is subject to a license allowing it to be modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject to restrictions set forth in the license. a number of commercial firms compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software to end users at nominal cost and earning revenue on complementary services and products. these firms do not have to bear the full costs of research and development for the software. a prominent example of open source software is the linux operating system. while we believe our products provide customers with significant advantages in security and productivity, and generally have a lower total cost of ownership than open source software, the popularization of the open source software model continues to pose a significant challenge to our business model, including continuing efforts by proponents of open source software to convince governments worldwide to mandate the use of open source software in their purchase and deployment of software products. to the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, sales of our products may decline, we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our products, and revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. another development is the software-as-a-service business model, by which companies provide applications, data, and related services over the internet. providers use primarily advertising or subscription-based revenue models. recent advances in computing and communications technologies have made this model viable and enabled the rapid growth of some of our competitors. we are devoting significant resources toward developing our own software-as-a-service strategies. it is uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful. we face intense competition. we continue to experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. our competitors range in size from fortune 100 companies to small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. while we believe the breadth of our businesses and product portfolio offers benefits to our customers that are a competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources to compete with us. in addition, barriers to entry in our businesses generally are low. the internet as a distribution channel and the non-commercial software model described above have reduced barriers to entry even further. open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts to developing software that mimics the features and functionality of our products. in response to competitive factors, we are developing versions of our products with basic functionality that are sold at lower prices than the standard versions. these competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against piracy, infringement of our patents by third parties, or declining legal protection for intellectual property. we defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques. preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is difficult. piracy of our products represents a loss of revenue to us. while this adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the united states is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. future legal changes could make this even more challenging. throughout the world, we actively educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. however, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail to enhance revenue. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights or compliance with additional intellectual property obligations impacting the rights of software developers could both adversely affect revenue. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow. responding to these claims may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, require us to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or to pay damages or to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. if we are required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, our operating margins may decline as a result. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. page 13 table of contents part i item 1a we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. while we license certain portions of our source code for various software programs and operating systems to a number of licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if an unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. the loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code could also increase certain risks described in the next paragraph. security vulnerabilities in our products could lead to reduced revenues or to liability claims. maintaining the security of computers and computer networks is a critical issue for us and our customers. hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. while this is an industry-wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, it affects our products in particular because hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems and programs and we expect them to continue to do so. we devote significant resources to address these critical issues. we focus on engineering even more secure products, enhancing security and reliability options and settings when we deliver products, and providing guidance to help our customers make the best use of our products and services to protect against computer viruses and other attacks on their computing environment. in addition, we are working to improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities discovered after our products are released. we are also investing in mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed. we advise customers on how to help protect themselves from security threats through the use of our online automated security tools, our published security guidance, and the deployment of security software such as firewalls, anti-virus, and other security software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. despite these efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could lead some customers to seek to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, or to use competing products. customers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. in addition, actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. while our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be held effective under applicable laws and judicial decisions. we are subject to government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how we design and market our products. as a leading global software maker we receive scrutiny from government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers based on alleged anti-competitive conduct. for example, we have been involved in the following actions. lawsuits brought by the u.s. department of justice, 18 states, and the district of columbia in two separate actions were resolved through a consent decree that took effect in november 2001 and a final judgment entered in november 2002. these proceedings imposed regulatory constraints on our windows operating system businesses, including limits on certain contracting practices, required disclosure of certain software program interfaces, limits on microsoft ability to ensure the visibility of certain windows features in new pcs, and required licensing of certain communications protocols. while we believe we currently are in full compliance with the decree and judgment, if we fail to comply with them in the future additional restrictions could be imposed on us that would adversely affect our business. in march 2004, the european commission determined that we must create new versions of windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies, many of which are required for certain web sites, software applications and other aspects of windows to function properly, and we must provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain communications protocols supported in windows. microsoft has appealed both determinations to european courts. as a result of the commission decision, we have incurred and will (absent a reversal of this ruling) continue to incur duplicative development costs. the commission ruling obligates microsoft to make available specifications for certain windows communications protocol technologies on licensing terms that are closely regulated by the commission. the availability of these licenses may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of microsoft own products which could result in a reduction in sales of our products. pending resolution of microsoft appeal, there will remain uncertainty about the legal principles that govern page 14 table of contents part i item 1a product design issues for future releases of microsoft products in europe. these uncertainties could cause microsoft to modify product design and delay release dates for windows or other products. in december 2005, the korean fair trade commission ( kftc ) completed an investigation of whether including streaming media technology or instant messenger technology in windows, or including windows media services as an optional component of windows server, violates the korean fair trade law. the kftc ruled that we had violated the law and issued a remedial order requiring us to offer two versions of windows pc operating systems, one with windows media player and instant messenger removed and another with those functionalities but also including opportunities for oems to install competing media player and instant messenger programs. if upheld on appeal, these remedies could adversely affect the utility and competitive position of windows pc operating systems in the korean market. we believe our integrated approach to delivery of product innovation benefits consumers and business. current or future government regulatory efforts and court decisions may hinder or delay our ability to provide these benefits thereby reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenues that come from them. moreover, there always remains the risk of new legal action, either by these or other governments or private claimants including with respect to products or features that haven t been scrutinized or been the subject of objections in the past. the outcome of such legal actions could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to design or develop alternative versions of products for specific geographical markets to remove or limit visibility of certain functionality, resulting in reduced customer benefits or additional costs and delays in the release of product lines or specific product versions. mandated alternative versions of our software may cause confusion that harms our reputation, including among consumers and with third-party software and web site developers who rely on the functionality removed from these alternative versions. competition authorities may authorize competitors to distribute implementations of microsoft communications protocols in source code form without proper contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. we may have to disclose otherwise confidential and trade secret information concerning the operation of our software that may facilitate the development of competing software. if not reversed or limited on appeal, the rulings described above may be cited as a precedent in other proceedings that seek to limit our ability to continue to improve windows by adding new functionality in response to consumer demand. our online offerings are subject to government regulation of the internet domestically and internationally in areas such as user privacy, data protection, and online content. the application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and sometimes may conflict. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. the development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. new products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products could adversely affect our revenue. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. we have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including windows vista, the 2007 microsoft office system, xbox 360, msn search, windows server and windows live. investments in new technology are inherently speculative. commercial success depends on many factors including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. significant revenue from new product and service investments may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. page 15 table of contents part i item 1a declines in demand for software could occur. if overall market demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines significantly, or consumer or corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. in addition, our revenue would be unfavorably impacted if customers reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades to existing products because new product offerings are not perceived as providing significant new functionality or other value to prospective purchasers. we are making significant investments in windows vista and the 2007 microsoft office system. if these products are not perceived as offering significant new functionality or value to prospective purchasers, our revenue and operating margins could be adversely affected. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending against us may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. while management currently believes that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. we may be at risk of having insufficient supplies of certain xbox 360 components or console inventory. some components of the xbox 360 are obtained from a single supplier and others may be subject to an industry-wide supply shortage. if a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain replacement supplies on a timely basis, resulting in reduced console and game sales. components are ordered based on forecasted console demand so we may experience component shortages for the xbox 360 or, alternatively, excess console inventory that may require us to record charges to cost of revenue. xbox 360 consoles will be assembled in asia; disruptions in the supply chain may result in console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. changes in accounting may affect our reported earnings and operating income. generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as revenue recognition for software, accounting for investments, and treatment of goodwill or amortizable intangible assets, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in our products or business could significantly change our reported earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. see note 1 in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies of this report. we operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks. we operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might page 16 table of contents part i item 1a require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the united states and other countries. operations outside of the united states may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. while we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. general economic and geo-political risks may affect our revenue and profitability. inflation, softness in corporate information technology spending, or other changes in general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware or software could adversely affect our revenue or our investment portfolio. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries or generally and could require changes in our operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. these conditions may lend additional uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers. catastrophic events may disrupt our business. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems in the event of a major earthquake, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales and providing services. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are near major earthquake faults. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected. acquisitions and joint ventures may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. these transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we don t realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make, or that we may experience difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management attention from our other businesses. these factors could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. we have limited insurance. we maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks of property loss. because of the unavailability or high cost of conventional insurance arrangements, we have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose of protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered by traditional insurance markets. as of june 30, 2006, the face value of captive insurance arrangements was $2.0 billion. actual value at any particular time will vary due to deductibles, exclusions, other restrictions, and claims. while we believe these arrangements are an effective way to insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with the risks discussed in this report or other events could exceed the coverage provided by such arrangements. improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. we store and process significant amounts of personally identifiable information as we offer a large array of products and services to our customers. it is possible that our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products also enable our customers to store and process personal data. perceptions that our products do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products. other risks that may affect our business. other factors that may affect our performance may include: sales channel disruption, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor; our ability to implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth; the continued availability of third-party distribution channels for msn service and other online offerings; and disruption to our operations as a result of weather-related events. page 17 table of contents part i item 1b, 2, 3, 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity, and commodity price risks. a portion of these risks is hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations and financial position. we hedge a portion of anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the overall effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. fixed-income securities are subject primarily to interest rate risk. the portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. securities held in our equity and other investments portfolio are subject to price risk, and are generally not hedged. however, we use options to hedge our price risk on certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. commodity derivatives held for the purpose of portfolio diversification are subject to commodity price risk. we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the model used for currencies, equities, and commodities is geometric brownian motion, which allows incorporation of optionality with regard to these risk exposures. for interest rate risk, exposures such as key rate durations and spread durations are used in calculations that reflect the principle that fixed-income security prices revert to maturity value over time. var is calculated by computing the exposures of each holding market value to a range of over 1,000 equity, fixed-income, foreign exchange, and commodity risk factors. the exposures are then used to compute the parameters of a distribution of potential changes in the total market value of all holdings, taking into account the weighted historical volatilities of the different rates and prices and the weighted historical correlations among the different rates and prices. the var is then calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. certain securities in our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. we hedge the value of a portion of these securities through the use of derivative contracts such as put-call collars. in these arrangements, we hedge a security equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most or all of the benefits of the security appreciation above the sold call strike, in exchange for the premium received for the sold call. we also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. we have incurred material impairment charges related to these securities in previous periods. at the beginning of the second fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2006, we changed the methodology we use to calculate var. we previously used a monte carlo simulation-based methodology to calculate var. in the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we adopted a factor-based parametric methodology. the factor-based parametric methodology can be performed more frequently (resulting in more timely data), divides the aggregated var into its component risk factor groups, and is incrementally more accurate than the previously used simulation-based methodology in evaluating diversification effects of commodity risk factors and interactions between equity and currency factors. while we believe the efficiencies gained by changing to the parametric methodology are significant, we do not believe this methodology produces results that are significantly different from the simulation-based methodology. the var amounts disclosed below are used as a risk management tool and reflect an estimate of potential reductions in fair value of our portfolio. losses in fair value over the specified holding period can exceed the reported var by significant amounts and can also accumulate over a longer time horizon than the specified holding period used in the var analysis. var amounts are not necessarily reflective of potential accounting losses, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with u.s. gaap. var numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency rate, equity price, and commodity price risks. these var numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. we use historical data to estimate var. given the reliance on historical data, var is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. an inherent limitation in var is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. page 41 table of contents part ii item 7a the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of june 30, 2006 and 2005, and for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2006: (in millions) year ended june 30, 2006 risk categories 2006 2005 average high low interest rates $ 66 $ 88 $ 82 $ 127 $ 62 currency rates 91 52 33 91 11 equity prices 88 164 116 168 84 commodity prices 12 14 15 18 12 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $158 million at june 30, 2006 and $195 million at june 30, 2005. the total var is 38% less at june 30, 2006 and 39% less at june, 30 2005 than the sum of the separate risk categories in the above table due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. page 42 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 12 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and trading price of our common stock. challenges to our business model may reduce our revenues and operating margins. our business model has been based upon customers paying a fee to license software that we developed and distributed. under this license-based software model, software developers bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution of their products. in recent years, certain open source software business models have evolved into a growing challenge to our license-based software model. open source commonly refers to software whose source code is subject to a license allowing it to be modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject to restrictions set forth in the license. a number of commercial firms compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software to end users at nominal cost and earning revenue on complementary services and products. these firms do not have to bear the full costs of research and development for the software. a prominent example of open source software is the linux operating system. although we believe our products provide customers with significant advantages in security, productivity, and total cost of ownership, the popularization of the open source software model continues to pose a significant challenge to our business model, including continuing efforts by proponents of open source software to convince governments worldwide to mandate the use of open source software in their purchase and deployment of software products. to the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, sales of our products may decline, we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our products, and revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. another development is the software-as-a-service business model, by which companies provide applications, data, and related services over the internet. providers use primarily advertising or subscription-based revenue models. recent advances in computing and communications technologies have made this model viable and enabled the rapid growth of some of our competitors. we are devoting significant resources toward developing our own competing software plus services strategies. it is uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful. we face intense competition. we continue to experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. our competitors range in size from fortune 100 companies to small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. although we believe the breadth of our businesses and product portfolio are a competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused on narrower product lines may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources to compete with us. in addition, barriers to entry in our businesses generally are low and products, once developed, can be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts to developing software that mimics the features and functionality of our products. in response to competition, we are developing versions of our products with basic functionality that are sold at lower prices than the standard versions. these competitive page 12 table of contents part i item 1a pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of software and other intellectual property is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we actively educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. however, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail to enhance revenue. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights or additional compliance burdens could both adversely affect revenue. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow. to resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, stop selling or redesign affected products, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. such agreements may cause operating margins to decline. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to a number of licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if an unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. this could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code could also increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. security vulnerabilities in our products could lead to reduced revenues or to liability claims. maintaining the security of computers and computer networks is a critical issue for us and our customers. hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, it affects our products in particular because hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems and programs and we expect them to continue to do so. we devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through: engineering more secure products; enhancing security and reliability features in our products; helping our customers make the best us of our products and services to protect against computer viruses and other attacks; improving the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities; investing in mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; and providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such as firewalls, anti-virus, and other security software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. despite these efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could lead some customers to seek to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, or to use competing products. customers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. in addition, actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be held effective under applicable laws and judicial decisions. page 13 table of contents part i item 1a we are subject to government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how we design and market our products. as a leading global software maker, we receive close scrutiny from government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. for example, we have been involved in the following actions. lawsuits brought by the u.s. department of justice, 18 states, and the district of columbia in two separate actions were resolved through a consent decree that took effect in november 2001 and a final judgment entered in november 2002. these proceedings imposed various constraints on our windows operating system businesses. these include limits on certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure of certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers to limit the visibility of certain windows features in new pcs. some of these rules will expire in november 2007; others will stay in force until november 2009 or later. although we believe we are in full compliance with these rules, if we fail to comply with them, additional restrictions could be imposed on us that would adversely affect our business. in march 2004, the european commission ordered us to create new versions of windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. the design of these special versions of windows and the terms on which we make our protocol technology available are closely regulated by the commission. the product design aspect of the commission decision may limit our ability to innovate in windows in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform and increase our product development costs. the availability of protocol licenses may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of microsoft own products which could result in a reduction in sales of our products. pending resolution of microsoft appeal, there will remain uncertainty about the legal principles that govern product design and intellectual properties for future releases of microsoft products in europe. in february 2006, the korean fair trade commission ( kftc ) issued a decision requiring us to offer two versions of windows pc operating systems, one with windows media player and instant messaging software removed and another with those functionalities included but also including promotional links to competing software products. if upheld on appeal, these remedies could adversely affect the utility and competitive position of windows pc operating systems in korea. government regulatory actions and court decisions may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenues that come from them. new legal actions could be initiated at any time, either by these or other governments or private claimants including with respect to new versions of windows or other microsoft products. the outcome of such legal actions could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to meet mandated government specifications, which may entail removing functionality that customers want or developers rely on. creating mandated alternative versions of our products may cause confusion that harms our reputation, including among consumers and with software and web site developers who rely on the functionality removed from these alternative versions. government agencies may require that we make available licenses to our proprietary protocol technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. if not reversed or limited on appeal, the rulings described above may be cited as a precedent in other proceedings that seek to limit our ability to continue to improve windows by adding new functionality in response to consumer demand or to build our own software development efforts. our software and services online offerings are subject to government regulation of the internet domestically and internationally in many areas including user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. the application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and sometimes may conflict. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we stop doing the alleged noncompliant activity. our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our page 14 table of contents part i item 1a industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. the development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. new products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products could adversely affect our revenue. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. we have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including windows vista, the 2007 microsoft office system, xbox 360, live search, windows server, zune, and windows live. investments in new technology are inherently speculative. commercial success depends on many factors including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. adverse economic conditions may harm our business. inflation, softness in corporate information technology spending, or other changes in general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware or software could adversely affect our revenue or our investment portfolio. if overall market demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines significantly, or consumer or corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. in addition, our revenue would be unfavorably impacted if customers reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades because new offerings such as windows vista and the 2007 microsoft office system are not perceived as providing significant new functionality or other value to prospective purchasers. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending against us may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. although management currently believes that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. our consumer hardware products may experience quality or supply problems . our hardware products such as the xbox 360 console are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing or warranty repairs. we obtain some components of our hardware devices from sole suppliers. if a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain replacement supplies on a timely basis, resulting in reduced sales. either component shortages or excess inventory may require us to record charges to cost of revenue. xbox 360 consoles are assembled in asia; disruptions in the supply chain may result in console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. page 15 table of contents part i item 1a, 1b if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. we operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks. we operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the united states and other countries. operations outside the united states may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; changes in regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services or performing other mission-critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are near major earthquake faults. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results could be adversely affected. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries or operating costs. these conditions may lend additional uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers. acquisitions and joint ventures may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. these transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we don t realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make, or that we experience difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management attention from our other businesses. these factors could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. we store and process significant amounts of personally identifiable information. it is possible that our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products also enable our customers to store and process personal data. perceptions that our products do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products. other risks that may affect our business. other factors that may affect our performance may include sales channel disruption, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, and our ability to implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity, and commodity price risks. a portion of these risks is hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we hedge a portion of anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the overall effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. fixed-income securities and interest rate derivatives are subject primarily to interest rate risk. the portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. securities held in our equity and other investments portfolio and equity derivatives are subject to price risk, and are generally not hedged. however, we use put-call collars to hedge our price risk on certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. commodity derivatives held for the purpose of portfolio diversification are subject to commodity price risk. we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the model used for currencies, equities, and commodities is geometric brownian motion, which allows incorporation of optionality with regard to these risk exposures. for interest rate risk, exposures such as key rate durations and spread durations are used in calculations that reflect the principle that fixed-income security prices revert to maturity value over time. var is calculated by computing the exposures of each holding market value to a range of over 1,000 equity, fixed-income, foreign exchange, and commodity risk factors. the exposures are then used to compute the parameters of a distribution of potential changes in the total market value of all holdings, taking into account the weighted historical volatilities of the different rates and prices and the weighted historical correlations among the different rates and prices. the var is then calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. certain securities in our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. we hedge the value of a portion of these securities through the use of derivative contracts such as put-call collars. in these arrangements, we hedge a security equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most or all of the benefits of the security appreciation above the sold call strike. we also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. we have incurred material impairment charges related to these securities in previous periods. the var amounts disclosed below are used as a risk management tool and reflect an estimate of potential reductions in fair value of our portfolio. losses in fair value over the specified holding period can exceed the reported var by significant amounts and can also accumulate over a longer time horizon than the specified holding period used in the var analysis. var amounts are not necessarily reflective of potential accounting losses, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with u.s. gaap. var numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency rate, equity price, and commodity price risks. these var numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. we use historical data to estimate var. given the reliance on historical data, var is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. an inherent limitation in var is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of and for the years ended june 30, 2007 and 2006: (in millions) year ended june 30, 2007 risk categories june 30, 2007 june 30, 2006 average high low interest rates $ 34 $ 66 $ 43 $ 67 $ 32 currency rates 55 91 52 101 15 equity prices 60 88 59 89 49 commodity prices 7 12 7 12 4 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $95 million at june 30, 2007 and $158 million at june 30, 2006. the total var is 39% less at june 30, 2007, and 38% less at june 30, 2006, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the above table due to the diversification benefit of the overall portfolio. page 39 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 12 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. challenges to our business model may reduce our revenues and operating margins. our business model has been based upon customers paying a fee to license software that we develop and distribute. under this license-based software model, software developers bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution of their products. certain open source software business models challenge our license-based software model. open source commonly refers to software whose source code is subject to a license allowing it to be modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject to restrictions set forth in the license. a number of commercial firms compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software to end users at nominal cost and earning revenue on complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. some of these firms may build upon microsoft ideas that we provide to them free or at low royalties in connection with our interoperability initiatives. to the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, our sales, revenue and operating margins may decline. page 12 table of contents part i item 1a another development is the business model under which companies provide content, and software in the form of applications, data, and related services, over the internet in exchange for revenues primarily from advertising or subscriptions. an example of an advertising-funded business model is internet search, where providing a robust alternative is particularly important and challenging due to the scale effects enjoyed by a single market dominant competitor. advances in computing and communications technologies have made this model viable and enabled the rapid growth of some of our competitors. we are devoting significant resources toward developing our own competing software plus services strategies. it is uncertain whether these strategies will be successful. an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls both the software and hardware elements of a product, has been successful with certain consumer products such as personal computers, mobile phones and digital music players. we also offer vertically-integrated hardware and software products; however, efforts to compete with the vertically integrated model may increase our cost of sales and reduce operating margins. we face intense competition. we continue to experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. our competitors range in size from fortune 100 companies to small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. although we believe the breadth of our businesses and product portfolio is a competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused on narrower product lines may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources to compete with us. in addition, barriers to entry in our businesses generally are low and products, once developed, can be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts to developing software that mimics the features and functionality of our products, in some cases on the basis of technical specifications for microsoft technologies that we make available. in response to competition, we are developing versions of our products with basic functionality that are sold at lower prices than the standard versions. these competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of software and other intellectual property is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we actively educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. however, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail to enhance revenue. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow. to resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, stop selling or redesign affected products, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. such agreements may cause operating margins to decline. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to a number of licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if an unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. this could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. page 13 table of contents part i item 1a security vulnerabilities in our products could lead to reduced revenues or to liability claims. maintaining the security of computers and computer networks is a critical issue for us and our customers. hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. although this is an industry- wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, it affects our products in particular because hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems and programs and we expect them to continue to do so. we devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through: engineering more secure products; enhancing security and reliability features in our products; helping our customers make the best use of our products and services to protect against computer viruses and other attacks; improving the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities; investing in mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; and providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such as firewalls, anti-virus, and other security software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. despite these efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could lead some customers to seek to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, or to use competing products. customers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. in addition, actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. we are subject to government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how we design and market our products. as a leading global software maker, we receive close scrutiny from government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. for example, we have been involved in the following actions. lawsuits brought by the u.s. department of justice, 18 states, and the district of columbia in two separate actions were resolved through a consent decree that took effect in 2001 and a final judgment entered in 2002. these proceedings imposed various constraints on our windows operating system businesses. these constraints include limits on certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure of certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers to limit the visibility of certain windows features in new pcs. we believe we are in full compliance with these rules. however, if we fail to comply with them, additional restrictions could be imposed on us that would adversely affect our business. the european commission closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. the commission impact on product design may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our own products which could result in decreased sales of our products. government regulatory actions and court decisions may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenues that come from them. new actions could be initiated at any time, either by these or other governments or private claimants, including with respect to new versions of windows or other microsoft products. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. page 14 table of contents part i item 1a we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. the rulings described above may be cited as a precedent in other competition law proceedings. our software and services online offerings are subject to government regulation of the internet domestically and internationally in many areas, including user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. the application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and sometimes may conflict. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we stop doing the alleged noncompliant activity. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. the development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. new products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. our increasing focus on software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. we have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including windows vista, the 2007 microsoft office system, xbox 360, live search, windows server, zune, and windows live. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. adverse economic conditions may harm our business. inflation, softness in corporate information technology spending, or other changes in economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware or software could adversely affect our revenue or our investment portfolio. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines significantly, or consumer or corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. in addition, our revenue may be unfavorably impacted if customers reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades because new offerings such as windows vista and the 2007 microsoft office system are not perceived as providing significant new functionality or other value to prospective purchasers. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. although management currently believes resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows also could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is page 15 table of contents part i item 1a uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. our vertically-integrated hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems . our hardware products such as the xbox 360 console are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. we obtain some components of our hardware devices from sole suppliers. if a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. either component shortages or excess or obsolete inventory may require us to record charges to cost of revenue. xbox 360 consoles are assembled in asia; disruptions in the supply chain may result in console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. we operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks. we operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the united states and other countries. operations outside the united states may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; changes in regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services or performing other mission-critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are near major earthquake faults. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers. acquisitions and joint ventures may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. these transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we don t realize a satisfactory return on our investment, or that we experience difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management attention from our other businesses. these events could harm our operating results or financial condition. page 16 table of contents part i item 1a, 1b, 2 improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. we store and process large amounts of personally identifiable information. it is possible that our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products also enable our customers to store and process personal data. perceptions that our products do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our web sites and to introduce new products and services and support existing services such as xbox live, windows live, and office live. this expansion is expensive, complex, and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures, which could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition. other risks that may affect our business. other factors that may affect our performance may include sales channel disruption, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, and our ability to implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity, and commodity price risks. a portion of these risks is hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we hedge a portion of anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the overall effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. fixed-income securities and interest rate derivatives are subject primarily to interest rate risk. the portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. securities held in our equity and other investments portfolio and equity derivatives are subject to price risk, and generally are not hedged. however, we use put-call collars to hedge our price risk on certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. commodity derivatives held for the purpose of portfolio diversification are subject to commodity price risk. we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the model used for currencies, equities, and commodities is geometric brownian motion, which allows incorporation of optionality with regard to these risk exposures. for interest rate risk, exposures such as key rate durations and spread durations are used in calculations that reflect the principle that fixed-income security prices revert to maturity value over time. var is calculated by computing the exposures of each holding market value to a range of over 1,000 equity, fixed-income, foreign exchange, and commodity risk factors. the exposures are then used to compute the parameters of a distribution of potential changes in the total market value of all holdings, taking into account the weighted historical volatilities of the different rates and prices and the weighted historical correlations among the different rates and prices. the var is then calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. certain securities in our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. we hedge the value of a portion of these securities through the use of derivative contracts such as put-call collars. in these arrangements, we hedge a security equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most or all of the benefits of the security appreciation above the sold call strike. we also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. the var amounts disclosed below are used as a risk management tool and reflect an estimate of potential reductions in fair value of our portfolio. losses in fair value over the specified holding period can exceed the reported var by significant amounts and can also accumulate over a longer time horizon than the specified holding period used in the var analysis. var amounts are not necessarily reflective of potential accounting losses, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with u.s. gaap. var numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency rate, equity price, and commodity price risks. these var numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. we use historical data to estimate var. given the reliance on historical data, var is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. an inherent limitation in var is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of and for the years ended june 30, 2008 and 2007: (in millions) year ended june 30, 2008 risk categories june 30, 2008 june 30, 2007 average high low interest rates $ 34 $ 34 $ 32 $ 37 $ 25 currency rates 100 55 93 145 60 equity prices 45 60 54 60 44 commodity prices 7 7 6 7 4 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $123 million at june 30, 2008 and $95 million at june 30, 2007. the total var is 34% less at june 30, 2008, and 39% less at june 30, 2007, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the above table due to the diversification benefit of the overall portfolio. page 40 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 13 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. challenges to our business model may reduce our revenues and operating margins. our business model has been based upon customers paying a fee to license software that we develop and distribute. under this license-based software model, software developers bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution of their products. certain open source software business models challenge our license-based software model. open source commonly refers to software whose source code is subject to a license allowing it to be modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject to restrictions set forth in the license. a number of commercial firms compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software to end users at nominal cost and earning revenue on complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. some of these firms may build upon microsoft ideas that we provide to them free or at low royalties in connection with our interoperability initiatives. to the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, our sales, revenue, and operating margins may decline. another development is the business model under which companies provide content, and software in the form of applications, data, and related services, over the internet in exchange for revenues primarily from advertising or subscriptions. an example of an advertising-funded business model is internet search, where providing a robust page 13 table of contents part i item 1a alternative is particularly important and challenging due to the scale effects enjoyed by a single market dominant competitor. advances in computing and communications technologies have made this model viable and enabled the rapid growth of some of our competitors. we are devoting significant resources toward developing our own competing software plus services strategies including the windows azure platform, our hosted computing platform designed to facilitate the rapid, flexible and scalable development of cloud-based services. it is uncertain whether these strategies will be successful. an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls both the software and hardware elements of a product, has been successful with certain consumer products such as personal computers, mobile phones, and digital music players. we also offer vertically-integrated hardware and software products; however, efforts to compete with the vertically integrated model may increase our cost of sales and reduce our operating margins. we face intense competition. we continue to experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. our competitors range in size from fortune 100 companies to small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. although we believe the breadth of our businesses and product portfolio is a competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused on narrower product lines may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources to compete with us. in addition, barriers to entry in our businesses generally are low and products, once developed, can be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts to developing software that mimics the features and functionality of our products, in some cases on the basis of technical specifications for microsoft technologies that we make available at little or no cost. in response to competition, we are developing versions of our products with basic functionality that are sold at lower prices than the standard versions. these competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of software and other intellectual property is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we actively educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. however, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail to enhance revenue. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow. to resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, stop selling or redesign affected products, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. such agreements may cause operating margins to decline. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to a number of licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if an unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. this could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. security vulnerabilities in our products could lead to reduced revenues or to liability claims. maintaining the security of computers and computer networks is a critical issue for us and our customers. hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, it affects our products in particular because hackers tend page 14 table of contents part i item 1a to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems and programs and we expect them to continue to do so. we devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through: engineering more secure products; enhancing security and reliability features in our products; helping our customers make the best use of our products and services to protect against computer viruses and other attacks; improving the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities; investing in mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; and providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such as firewalls and anti-virus software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. despite these efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could lead some customers to seek to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, or to use competing products. customers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. in addition, actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. we are subject to government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how we design and market our products. as a leading global software maker, we receive close scrutiny from government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. for example, we have been involved in the following actions. lawsuits brought by the u.s. department of justice, 18 states, and the district of columbia in two separate actions were resolved through a consent decree that took effect in 2001 and a final judgment entered in 2002. these proceedings imposed various constraints on our windows operating system businesses. these constraints include limits on certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure of certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers to limit the visibility of certain windows features in new pcs. we believe we are in full compliance with these rules. however, if we fail to comply with them, additional restrictions could be imposed on us that would adversely affect our business. the european commission closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. the commission impact on product design may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our own products which could result in decreased sales of our products. government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenues that come from them. new actions could be initiated at any time, either by these or other governments or private claimants, including with respect to new versions of windows or other microsoft products. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. the rulings described above may be cited as a precedent in other competition law proceedings. page 15 table of contents part i item 1a our software and services online offerings are subject to government regulation of the internet domestically and internationally in many areas, including user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. the application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and sometimes may conflict. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we stop doing the alleged noncompliant activity. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. the development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. new products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. our increasing focus on software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. our growth depends on our ability to innovate by offering new, and adding value to our existing, software and service offerings. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including the windows pc operating system, the microsoft office system, xbox 360, live search, windows server, zune, windows live, the windows azure services platform, and other software plus services offerings. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. adverse economic conditions may harm our business. unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may result in lower information technology spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. our product distribution system also relies on an extensive partner network. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, could result in sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that have affected global financial markets. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely impact our financial results. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. although management currently believes resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows also could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. page 16 table of contents part i item 1a we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. in addition, there have been proposals to reform u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. we earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. our vertically-integrated hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems . our hardware products such as the xbox 360 console are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. we obtain some components of our hardware devices from sole suppliers. if a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. either component shortages or excess or obsolete inventory may require us to record charges to cost of revenue. xbox 360 consoles are assembled in asia; disruptions in the supply chain may result in console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. we operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks. we operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the united states and other countries. operations outside the united states may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including the foreign corrupt practices act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments; and changes in regulatory requirements for software. emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. the developing nature of these markets presents a number of risks. deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations may also adversely affect our operations or financial results. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are near major earthquake faults. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers. page 17 table of contents part i item 1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4 acquisitions and joint ventures may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. these transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we don t realize a satisfactory return on our investment, or that we experience difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management attention from our other businesses. these events could harm our operating results or financial condition. improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. we store and process large amounts of personally identifiable information. it is possible that our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data. perceptions that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products. we may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our web sites and to introduce new products and services and support existing services such as xbox live, windows live, and office live. this expansion is expensive, complex, and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures, which could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. a portion of these risks is hedged, but they may impact results of operations cash flows and financial condition. foreign currency. certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable to offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. interest rate. our fixed-income portfolio is diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily of investment-grade securities. the credit risk and average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio is managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. in addition, we use to be announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency and mortgage-backed securities. equity. our equity portfolio consists of global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject to market price risk. we manage the securities relative to certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. commodity. we use broad-based commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. our investment portfolio has exposure to a variety of commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. we manage these exposures relative to global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. value-at-risk we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with u.s. gaap, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the distribution of the potential changes in total market value of all holdings is computed based on the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. the var is calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of june 30, 2009 and 2008 and for the year ended june 30, 2009: (in millions) year ended june 30, 2009 risk categories june 30, 2009 june 30, 2008 average high low foreign currency $ 68 $100 $53 $ 99 $20 interest rate 42 34 28 43 17 equity 157 45 98 158 45 commodity 16 7 10 16 6 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $211 million at june 30, 2009 and $123 million at june 30, 2008. the total var is 25% less at june 30, 2009, and 34% less at june 30, 2008, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the above table due to the diversification benefit of the overall portfolio. page 42 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 15 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. the cloud-based computing model presents execution and competitive risks. we are transitioning to a computing environment characterized by cloud-based services used with smart client devices. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. we are devoting significant resources to develop our own competing cloud-based software plus services strategies. while we believe our expertise, investments in infrastructure, and the breadth of our cloud-based services provides us with a strong foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to be successful. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this new business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; maintaining the utility, compatibility and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including smartphones, handheld computers, netbooks, tablets and television set top devices; and continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers. challenges to our business models may reduce our revenues or operating margins. whether our software runs in the cloud or on a device, we continue to face challenges from alternative means of developing and licensing software. under our license-based software model, software developers bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution of their products. certain open source software business models challenge our license-based software model. open source commonly refers to software whose source code is subject to a license allowing it to be modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject to restrictions set forth in the license. a number of commercial firms compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software to end users at nominal cost and earning revenue on complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. in some cases, their products may infringe patents granted to microsoft for our inventions. to the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, our sales, revenue, and operating margins may decline. an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls both the software and hardware elements of a product, has been successful with certain consumer products such as personal computers, mobile phones, and digital music players. we also offer vertically-integrated hardware and software products; however, efforts to compete with the vertically integrated model may increase our cost of sales and reduce our operating margins. we face intense competition. we continue to experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. our competitors range in size from fortune 100 companies to small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. although we believe the breadth of our businesses and product portfolio is a competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused on narrower product lines may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources to compete with us. in addition, barriers to entry in our businesses generally are low and products, once developed, can be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts to developing software that mimics the features and functionality of our products, in some cases in violation of our intellectual property rights or on the basis of technical specifications for microsoft technologies that we make available at little or no cost in 15 table of contents part i item 1a connection with our interoperability initiatives. in response to competition, we continue to develop versions of our products with basic functionality that are sold at lower prices than the standard versions. these competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of software and other intellectual property is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. as a result, our revenue in these markets likely will grow slower than the underlying pc market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we actively educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. however, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail to enhance revenue. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow. to resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, stop selling or redesign affected products, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. such agreements may cause operating margins to decline. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to a number of licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if an unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. this could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. security vulnerabilities in our products and services could lead to reduced revenues or to liability claims. maintaining the security of computers and computer networks is a critical issue for us and our customers. hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products and gain access to our networks and data centers. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, it affects our products in particular because hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems and programs and we expect them to continue to do so. we devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through: engineering more secure products and services; enhancing security and reliability features in our products and services; helping our customers make the best use of our products and services to protect against computer viruses and other attacks; improving the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities; investing in mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; and providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such as firewalls and anti-virus software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. despite these efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could lead some customers to seek to return products, to reduce or delay future 16 table of contents part i item 1a purchases, or to use competing products. customers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. in addition, if third parties gain access to our networks or data centers they could obtain and exploit confidential business information and harm our competitive position. finally, actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. we store and process large amounts of personally identifiable information as we sell software, provide support and offer cloud-based services to customers. it is possible that our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. improper disclosure of this information could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data. perceptions that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products or services. we may experience outages, data loss and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our web sites and in our data centers, and to introduce new products and services and support existing services such as bing, exchange online, sharepoint online, xbox live, windows live, and microsoft office web apps. we also are growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third-party businesses to their end customers. maintaining and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how we design and market our products. as a leading global software maker, we receive close scrutiny from government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. for example, we have been involved in the following actions. lawsuits brought by the u.s. department of justice, 18 states, and the district of columbia in two separate actions were resolved through a consent decree that took effect in 2001 and a final judgment entered in 2002. these proceedings imposed various constraints on our windows operating system businesses. these constraints include limits on certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure of certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers to limit the visibility of certain windows features in new pcs. we believe we are in full compliance with these rules. however, if we fail to comply with them, additional restrictions could be imposed on us that would adversely affect our business. the european commission closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments offered by microsoft to address the commission concerns relating to competition in web browsing software. the commission impact on product design may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our own products which could result in decreased sales of our products. 17 table of contents part i item 1a government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenues that come from them. new actions could be initiated at any time, either by these or other governments or private claimants, including with respect to new versions of windows or other microsoft products. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. the rulings described above may be cited as a precedent in other competition law proceedings. our software and services online offerings are subject to government regulation of the internet domestically and internationally in many areas, including user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. the application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and sometimes may conflict. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. the development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. new products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. our increasing focus on cloud-based software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. our growth depends on our ability to innovate by offering new, and adding value to our existing, software and service offerings. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including the windows pc operating system, the microsoft office system, xbox 360, bing, windows server, zune, windows live, the windows azure services platform, and other cloud-based services offerings. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. our degree of success with windows phone, for example, will impact our ability to grow share of the smartphone operating system market. it will also be an important factor in supporting our strategy of delivering value to end users seamlessly over pc, phone, and tv device classes. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. adverse economic conditions may harm our business. unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may result in lower information technology spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. our product distribution 18 table of contents part i item 1a system also relies on an extensive partner network. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, could result in sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that have affected global financial markets. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely impact our financial results. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. although management currently believes resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial statements, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our financial statements also could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. our vertically-integrated hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems. our hardware products such as the xbox 360 console are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. we obtain some components of our hardware devices from sole suppliers. if a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. either component shortages or excess or obsolete inventory may increase our cost of revenue. xbox 360 consoles are assembled in asia; disruptions in the supply chain may result in console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( u.s. gaap ), we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. we operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks. we operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the united states and other countries. operations outside 19 table of contents part i item 1a, 1b, 2 the united states may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including the foreign corrupt practices act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments. emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. the developing nature of these markets presents a number of risks. deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations may also adversely affect our operations or financial results. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are near major earthquake faults. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy in general or the information technology industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. new regulations may require us to find alternative compliant and cost-effective methods of distributing our products and services. acquisitions and joint ventures may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. these transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we don t realize a satisfactory return on our investment, or that we experience difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management attention from our other businesses. these events could harm our operating results or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. a portion of these risks is hedged, but they may impact our financial statements. foreign currency. certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable to offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. interest rate. our fixed-income portfolio is diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily of investment-grade securities. the credit risk and average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio is managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. in addition, we use to be announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency and mortgage-backed securities. equity. our equity portfolio consists of global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject to market price risk. we manage the securities relative to certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. commodity. we use broad-based commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. our investment portfolio has exposure to a variety of commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. we manage these exposures relative to global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. value-at-risk we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in the fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( u.s. gaap ), but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the distribution of the potential changes in total market value of all holdings is computed based on the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. the var is calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of june 30, 2010 and 2009 and for the year ended june 30, 2010: (in millions) june 30, 2010 june 30, 2009 year ended june 30, 2010 risk categories average high low foreign currency $ 57 $ 68 $ 53 $ 86 $ 20 interest rate $ 58 $ 42 $ 54 $ 69 $ 43 equity $ 183 $ 157 $ 184 $ 206 $ 142 commodity $ 19 $ 16 $ 17 $ 20 $ 14 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $235 million at june 30, 2010 and $211 million at june 30, 2009. the total var is 26% less at june 30, 2010, and 25% less at june 30, 2009, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the above table due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. 43 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 14 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. the cloud-based computing model presents execution and competitive risks. we are transitioning our strategy to a computing environment characterized by cloud-based services used with smart client devices. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own competing cloud-based software plus services strategies. while we believe our expertise, investments in infrastructure, and the breadth of our cloud-based services provides us with a strong foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to be successful. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this new business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including smartphones, handheld computers, netbooks, tablets, and television set top devices; continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers; and ensuring that our cloud services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. 14 table of contents part i item 1a challenges to our business models may reduce our revenue or operating margins. whether our software runs in the cloud or on a device, we continue to face challenges from alternative means of developing and licensing software. under our license-based software model, software developers bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution of their products. certain open source software business models challenge our license-based software model. open source commonly refers to software whose source code is subject to a license allowing it to be modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject to restrictions set forth in the license. some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software to end users at nominal cost and earning revenue on complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. in some cases, their products may infringe our patents. in addition, advertising-based business models seek revenue by delivering third party advertisements to end customers who receive the software and services at no direct costs. gains in market acceptance of open source or advertising based software may adversely affect our sales, revenue, and operating margins. an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls both the software and hardware elements of a product, has been successful with certain consumer products such as personal computers, mobile phones, and digital music players. we also offer vertically-integrated hardware and software products; however, efforts to compete with the vertically integrated model may increase our cost of sales and reduce our operating margins. we derive substantial revenue from licenses of windows operating systems on personal computers. the proliferation of alternative devices and form factors creates challenges from competing software platforms. it is uncertain to what extent alternative devices will increase the number of computing devices that users own, or will substitute for users personal computer purchases. alternative devices also run operating systems and applications developed by our competitors. these factors could impact our revenue and margins. we face intense competition. we continue to experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. our competitors range in size from fortune 100 companies to small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. although we believe the breadth of our businesses and product portfolio is a competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused on narrower product lines may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources to compete with us. in addition, barriers to entry in our businesses generally are low and products, once developed, can be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts to developing software that mimics the features and functionality of our products, in some cases in violation of our intellectual property rights or on the basis of technical specifications for microsoft technologies that we make available at little or no cost in connection with our interoperability initiatives. in response to competition, we continue to develop versions of our products with basic functionality that are sold at lower prices than the standard versions. these competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of software and other intellectual property is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. as a result, our revenue in these markets likely will grow slower than the underlying pc market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we actively educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. however, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail to enhance revenue. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time, we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. because of constant technological change in the 15 table of contents part i item 1a segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible the number of these claims may grow. to resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, stop selling or redesign affected products, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. such agreements may cause operating margins to decline. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to a number of licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if an unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. this could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, liability claims, or competitive harm. maintaining the security of computers and computer networks is paramount for us and our customers. hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and data centers. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, it affects our products and services in particular because hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, and we expect them to continue to do so. groups of hackers may also act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service attacks, or other coordinated attacks, that may cause service outages or other interruptions. we devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through: engineering more secure products and services; enhancing security and reliability features in our products and services, and continuously evaluating and updating those security and reliability features; helping our customers make the best use of our products and services to protect against computer viruses and other attacks; improving the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities; investing in mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; and providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such as firewalls and anti-virus software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. despite these efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could cause significant reputational harm and lead some customers to seek to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases or adoption of services, or to use competing products. customers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. in addition, our internal information technology environment continues to evolve. we are often early adopters of new devices and technologies. we embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating with partners and customers using methods such as social networking. these practices can enhance efficiency and business insight, but they also present risks that our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed of these changes. if third parties gain access to our networks or data centers, they could obtain and exploit confidential business information and harm our competitive position. 16 table of contents part i item 1a improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. as we continue to execute our strategy of increasing the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. at the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. this environment demands that we continuously improve our design and coordination of security controls across our business groups and geographies. despite these efforts, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. improper disclosure of this information could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. we believe consumers using our email, messaging, storage, sharing, and social networking services will increasingly want efficient, centralized methods of choosing their privacy preferences and controlling their data. perceptions that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could constrain consumer and business adoption of cloud-based solutions. we may experience outages, data loss and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our web sites and in our data centers, and to introduce new products and services and support existing services such as bing, exchange online, office 365, sharepoint online, xbox live, windows azure, windows live, and microsoft office web apps. we also are growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third-party businesses to their end customers. maintaining and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how we design and market our products. as a leading global software maker, we receive close scrutiny from government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. for example, we have been involved in the following actions. lawsuits brought by the u.s. department of justice, 18 states, and the district of columbia in two separate actions were resolved through a consent decree that took effect in 2001 and a final judgment entered in 2002. these proceedings imposed various constraints on our windows operating system businesses. these constraints included limits on certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure of certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers to limit the visibility of certain windows features in new pcs. although the consent decree and final judgment expired in may 2011, we expect that federal and state antitrust authorities will continue to closely scrutinize our business. the european commission closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments offered by microsoft to address the commission concerns relating to competition in web browsing software. the commission impact on product design may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our own products which could result in decreased sales of our products. 17 table of contents part i item 1a government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. new actions could be initiated at any time, either by these or other governments or private claimants, including with respect to new versions of windows or other microsoft products. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. the rulings described above may be used as precedent in other competition law proceedings. our software and services online offerings are subject to government regulation of the internet domestically and internationally in many areas, including user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. the application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and sometimes may conflict. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenue. the development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. new products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. our increasing focus on cloud-based software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. our growth depends on our ability to innovate by offering new, and adding value to our existing, software and service offerings. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including the windows pc operating system, the microsoft office system, bing, windows phone, windows server, windows live, the windows azure services platform and other cloud-based services offerings, and the xbox 360 entertainment platform. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. our degree of success with windows phone, for example, will impact our ability to grow our share of the smartphone operating system market. it will also be an important factor in supporting our strategy of delivering value to end users seamlessly over pc, phone, and tv device classes. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. adverse economic conditions may harm our business. unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may result in lower information technology spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or 18 table of contents part i item 1a business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. our product distribution system also relies on an extensive partner network. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, could result in sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that have affected global financial markets. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if the u.s. federal government budget process results in a default or downgrade of its debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely impact our financial results. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. although management currently believes resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial statements, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our financial statements also could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. our vertically-integrated hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems. our hardware products such as the xbox 360 console are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. we obtain some components of our hardware devices from sole suppliers. if a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. either component shortages or excess or obsolete inventory may increase our cost of revenue. xbox 360 consoles are assembled in asia; disruptions in the supply chain may result in console shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( u.s. gaap ), we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. 19 table of contents part i item 1a, 1b, 2 we operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks. we operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the u.s. and other countries. operations outside the u.s. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including the foreign corrupt practices act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments. emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. the developing nature of these markets presents a number of risks. deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations may also adversely affect our operations or financial results. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenue. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are near major earthquake faults. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. our move toward providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged outages on our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may result in supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may adversely affect our revenue. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy in general or the information technology industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. new regulations may require us to find alternative compliant and cost-effective methods of distributing our products and services. acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. these transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we don t realize a satisfactory return on our investment, or that we experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management attention from our other businesses. it may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or market share, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated, or may not be realized. these events could harm our operating results or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. a portion of these risks is hedged, but they may impact our financial statements. foreign currency certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable to offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. interest rate our fixed-income portfolio is diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily of investment-grade securities. the credit risk and average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio is managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. in addition, we use to be announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency and mortgage-backed securities. equity our equity portfolio consists of global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject to market price risk. we manage the securities relative to certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. commodity we use broad-based commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. our investment portfolio has exposure to a variety of commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. we manage these exposures relative to global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. value-at-risk we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in the fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( u.s. gaap ), but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the distribution of the potential changes in total market value of all holdings is computed based on the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. the var is calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. 44 table of contents part ii item 7a the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of june 30, 2011 and 2010 and for the year ended june 30, 2011: (in millions) june 30, 2011 june 30, 2010 year ended june 30, 2011 risk categories average high low foreign currency $ 86 $ 57 $ 67 $ 121 $ 40 interest rate $ 58 $ 58 $ 56 $ 65 $ 50 equity $ 212 $ 183 $ 211 $ 230 $ 184 commodity $ 28 $ 19 $ 22 $ 30 $ 18 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $290 million at june 30, 2011 and $235 million at june 30, 2010. the total var is 25% less at june 30, 2011, and 26% less at june 30, 2010, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the above table due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. 45 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 14 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. competition in the technology sector. our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. barriers to entry in our businesses generally are low and software products can be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products that appeal to businesses and consumers. competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices. an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain competitive margins. the strategic importance of a vibrant ecosystem increases as we launch the windows 8 operating system, surface devices, and associated cloud-based services. we face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications and services. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has been successful with some consumer products such as personal computers, mobile phones, gaming consoles, and digital music players. these competitors also earn revenue from services that are integrated with the hardware and software platform. we also offer vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services; however, our competitors have been in the market longer and in some cases have established significantly large user bases. efforts to compete with the vertically integrated model will increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. we derive substantial revenue from licenses of windows operating systems on personal computers. the proliferation of alternative devices and form factors, in particular mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers, creates challenges from competing software platforms. these devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. users may increasingly turn to these devices to perform functions that would have been performed by personal computers in the past. even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract applications developers to our platforms. in addition, our surface devices will compete with products made by our oem partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. competing platforms have applications marketplaces (sometimes referred to as stores ) with scale and significant installed bases on mobile devices. these applications leverage free and user-paid services that over time result in disincentives for users to switch to competing platforms. in order to compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal and value. efforts to compete with these application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. 14 table of contents part i item 1a business model competition. companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. under the license-based proprietary software model that generates most of our revenue, we bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model and we expect this competition to continue. other competitors develop and offer free online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. advertising revenues fund development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end users and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products. the competitive pressures described above may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives. this may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. our increasing focus on devices and services presents execution and competitive risks. a growing part of our strategy involves cloud-based services used with smart client devices. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and in some cases the user choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own competing cloud-based software plus services strategies. while we believe our expertise, investments in infrastructure, and the breadth of our cloud-based services provide us with a strong foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to be successful. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this new business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including pcs, smartphones, tablets, and television-related devices; continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers; and ensuring that our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the windows operating system, the microsoft office system, bing, windows phone, windows server, the windows store, the windows azure services platform, office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the xbox 360 entertainment platform. we will also continue to invest in new software and hardware products, services, and technologies, such as the surface line of microsoft-designed and manufactured devices announced in june 2012. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. 15 table of contents part i item 1a in fall 2012, we are launching windows 8, a major new release of our pc operating system that seeks to deliver a unique user experience through well-integrated software, hardware, and services. its success depends on a number of factors including the extent to which customers embrace its new user interface and functionality, successfully coordinating with our oem partners in releasing a variety of hardware devices that take advantage of its features, and attracting developers at scale to ensure a competitive array of quality applications. we expect to incur substantial marketing costs in launching window 8 and associated services and devices, which may reduce our operating margins. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of software and other intellectual property is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. as a result, our revenue in these markets may grow slower than the underlying pc market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we actively educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. however, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail to enhance revenue. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time, we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents. to resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. these outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. in addition to money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products that have infringing technologies. in some countries, such as germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to a number of licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if an unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. this could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position. security of microsoft information technology. maintaining the security of computers and computer networks is paramount for us and our customers. threats to information technology ( it ) security can take a variety of forms. hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and data centers. groups of hackers may also act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service attacks, or other coordinated attacks. sophisticated organizations or individuals may launch targeted attacks using novel methods to gain access to computers running our software. these threats may result in breaches of our network or data security, disruptions of our internal systems and business applications, impairment of our ability to provide services to our customers, product development delays, harm to our competitive position from the compromise of confidential business information, or other negative impacts on our business. 16 table of contents part i item 1a in addition, our internal it environment continues to evolve. often we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. we embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. these practices can enhance efficiency and business insight, but they also present risks that our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed of these changes. security of our customers products and services . security threats are a particular challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services. the threats to our own it infrastructure also affect our customers. customers using our cloud services rely on the security of our infrastructure to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect them to continue to do so. the security of our products and services is an important consideration in our customers purchasing decisions. we devote significant resources to defend against security threats, both to our internal it systems and those of our customers. these include: engineering more secure products and services; enhancing security and reliability features in our products and services, and continuously evaluating and updating those security and reliability features; improving the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities; investing in mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; protecting the digital security infrastructure that ensures the integrity of our products and services; helping our customers make the best use of our products and services to protect against computer viruses and other attacks; and providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such as firewalls and anti-virus software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. despite these efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could cause significant reputational harm and lead some customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products. customers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. legislative or regulatory action may increase the costs to develop or implement our products and services. improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. as we continue to execute our strategy of increasing the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. at the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. this environment demands that we continuously improve our design and coordination of security controls across our business groups and geographies. despite these efforts, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information that we or our vendors store and manage. improper disclosure of this information could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on premise or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. we believe consumers using our email, messaging, storage, sharing, and social networking services will increasingly want efficient, centralized methods of choosing their privacy preferences and controlling their data. perceptions that our products or services do not adequately protect the 17 table of contents part i item 1a privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could constrain consumer and business adoption of our cloud-based solutions. we may experience outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites and in our data centers, and to introduce new products and services and support existing services such as bing, exchange online, office 365, sharepoint online, skype, xbox live, windows azure, windows live, and microsoft office web apps. we also are growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third-party businesses to their end customers. maintaining and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how we design and market our products. as a leading global software maker, we receive close scrutiny from government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. for example, we have been involved in the following actions. lawsuits brought by the u.s. department of justice, 18 states, and the district of columbia in two separate actions were resolved through a consent decree that took effect in 2001 and a final judgment entered in 2002. these proceedings imposed various constraints on our windows operating system businesses. these constraints included limits on certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure of certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers to limit the visibility of certain windows features in new pcs. although the consent decree and final judgment expired in may 2011, we expect that federal and state antitrust authorities will continue to closely scrutinize our business. the european commission closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments offered by microsoft to address the commission concerns relating to competition in web browsing software. the commission impact on product design may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our own products which could result in decreased sales of our products. government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. new actions could be initiated at any time, either by these or other governments or private claimants, including with respect to new versions of windows or other microsoft products. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. the rulings described above may be used as precedent in other competition law proceedings. 18 table of contents part i item 1a we are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments as a result of court or administrative orders, consent decrees or other voluntary actions we have taken. if we fail to comply with these commitments we may incur litigation costs and be subject to fines or other remedial actions. for example, in july 2012 we announced that, for some pcs sold in europe, we were not in compliance with our 2009 agreement to display a browser choice screen on windows pcs where internet explorer is the default browser. our products and online services offerings, including new technologies we develop or acquire such as skype, are subject to government regulation in some jurisdictions, including in areas of user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. the application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. additionally these laws and governments approach to their enforcement, as well as our products and services, are continuing to evolve. compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenue. the development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. new products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. our increasing focus on cloud-based software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. our growth depends on our ability to create new and higher value product and service offerings. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the windows pc operating system, the microsoft office system, bing, windows phone, windows server, the windows store, the windows azure services platform, office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the xbox 360 entertainment platform. in june 2012, we announced the surface line of microsoft-designed and manufactured devices. we will also continue to invest in new software and hardware products, services, and technologies. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. our degree of success with windows phone, for example, will impact our ability to grow our share of the smartphone operating system market. it will also be an important factor in supporting our strategy of delivering value to end users seamlessly over a variety of form factors including pc, phone, and tv device classes. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. adverse economic conditions may harm our business. unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may result in lower information technology spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. our product distribution system also relies on an extensive partner and retail network. original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, oem, or retailer, could result in sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and 19 table of contents part i item 1a services they have purchased. as a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that have affected global financial markets. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of u.s. government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. although management currently believes resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial statements, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our financial statements also could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. our hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems. our vertically-integrated hardware products such as the xbox 360 console, surface devices, and other hardware devices we design and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. we obtain some components of our hardware devices from sole suppliers. our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the amount of capacity available to us. if a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. either component shortages or excess or obsolete inventory may increase our cost of revenue. xbox 360 consoles are assembled in asia; disruptions in the supply chain may result in console shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. our stand-alone software products may also experience quality or reliability problems. the highly sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could result in reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. we acquire other companies and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( u.s. gaap ), we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when 20 table of contents part i item 1a events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. we test goodwill for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. for example, in july 2012, we announced a $6.2 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill in our online services division business segment. we operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks. we operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the u.s. and other countries. operations outside the u.s. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including the foreign corrupt practices act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. the developing nature of these markets presents a number of risks. deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, such as current uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, may also adversely affect our operations or financial results. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenue. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are near major earthquake faults. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. our move toward providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may result in supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may adversely affect our revenue. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy in general or the information technology industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. new regulations may require us to find alternative compliant and cost-effective methods of distributing our products and services. acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. these transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, or that we experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management attention from our other businesses. our recent acquisition of skype, for example, provides opportunities to enhance our existing products. the success of our integration of skype will depend in part on our ability to provide compelling experiences that distinguish us from our competitors in both consumer and business markets. it may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or market share, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized. these events could harm our operating results or financial condition. 21 table of contents part i item 1b, 2, 3, 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. a portion of these risks is hedged, but they may impact our financial statements. foreign currency certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable to offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. interest rate our fixed-income portfolio is diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily of investment-grade securities. the credit risk and average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio is managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. in addition, we use to be announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency and mortgage-backed securities. equity our equity portfolio consists of global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject to market price risk. we manage the securities relative to certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. commodity we use broad-based commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. our investment portfolio has exposure to a variety of commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. we manage these exposures relative to global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. value-at-risk we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in the fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( u.s. gaap ), but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the distribution of the potential changes in total market value of all holdings is computed based on the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. the var is calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. 45 table of contents part ii item 7a the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of june 30, 2012 and june 30, 2011 and for the year ended june 30, 2012: (in millions) june 30, 2012 june 30, 2011 year ended june 30, 2012 risk categories average high low foreign currency $ 98 $ 86 $ 173 $ 229 $ 84 interest rate $ 71 $ 58 $ 64 $ 73 $ 57 equity $ 205 $ 212 $ 194 $ 248 $ 165 commodity $ 18 $ 28 $ 20 $ 29 $ 15 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $292 million at june 30, 2012 and $290 million at june 30, 2011. the total var is 26% less at june 30, 2012, and 25% less at june 30, 2011, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the above table due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. 46 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 14 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. competition in the technology sector our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. barriers to entry in our businesses generally are low and software products can be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. the strategic importance of developing and maintaining a vibrant ecosystem increased with the launch of the windows 8 operating system, surface, windows phone, and associated cloud-based services. we face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications, and services. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has been successful with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, mobile phones, gaming consoles, and digital music players. competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services that are integrated with the hardware and software platform. we also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services; however, our competitors in smartphones and tablets have established significantly larger user bases. efforts to compete with the vertically integrated model will increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. we derive substantial revenue from licenses of windows operating systems on personal computers. we face substantial competitive challenges from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. these devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that would have been performed by personal computers in the past. even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract applications developers to our platforms. in addition, surface competes with products made by our oem partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. competing platforms have applications marketplaces (sometimes referred to as stores ) with scale and significant installed bases on mobile devices. these applications leverage free and user-paid services that over time result in disincentives for users to switch to competing platforms. in order to compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal, and value. efforts to compete with these application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. 14 table of contents part i item 1a business model competition companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. under the license-based proprietary software model that generates most of our revenue, we bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model and we expect this competition to continue. other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products. the competitive pressures described above may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives. this may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. our increasing focus on services presents execution and competitive risks. a growing part of our strategy involves cloud-based services used with smart devices. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and in some cases the user choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own competing cloud-based strategies. the windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. while we believe our expertise, investments in infrastructure, and the breadth of our cloud-based services provide us with a strong foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to be successful. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this new business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including pcs, smartphones, tablets, and television-related devices; continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers; and ensuring that our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. in july 2013, we announced a change in organizational structure as part of our transformation to a devices and services company. this change in structure is designed to enable us to innovate with greater speed, efficiency, and capability in the fast-changing competitive environment. we expect this change to alter the way we plan, develop, and market our products and services, as we pursue a single strategy to offer a family of devices and services designed to empower our customers for the activities they value most. it is uncertain whether our one microsoft strategy will yield the anticipated efficiencies or competitive benefits. as we increasingly license cloud-based versions of our products and services, such as office 365, rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the period of the subscription. 15 table of contents part i item 1a we make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the windows operating system, the microsoft office system, bing, windows phone, windows server, the windows store, the windows azure services platform, office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the xbox 360 entertainment platform. we will continue to invest in new software and hardware products, services, and technologies, such as the microsoft-designed and manufactured surface launched in october 2012. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for a number of years, if at all. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. in october 2012, we launched windows 8, a major new release of our operating system, which seeks to deliver a unique user experience through well-integrated software, hardware, and services. its success depends on a number of factors including the extent to which customers embrace the new user interface and functionality, successfully coordinating with our oem partners in releasing a variety of hardware devices that take advantage of new features, pricing windows 8-based devices competitively, and attracting developers at scale to ensure a competitive array of quality applications. the marketing costs we are incurring to promote windows 8 and associated services and devices may reduce our operating margins. acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. these transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or that the transaction diverts management attention from our other businesses. our acquisition of skype, for example, provides opportunities to enhance our existing products. the success of this acquisition will depend in part on our ability to provide compelling experiences that distinguish us from our competitors in both consumer and business markets. it may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized. these events could harm our operating results or financial condition. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. as a result, our revenue in these markets may grow slower than the underlying pc market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we actively educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. however, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail to enhance revenue. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time, we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of microsoft-branded services and hardware devices, such as surface. to resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. these outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. in addition to money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. in some countries, such 16 table of contents part i item 1a as germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to a number of licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if an unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. it may become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position. security of microsoft information technology maintaining the security of computers and computer networks is paramount for us and our customers. threats to information technology ( it ) security can take a variety of forms. hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and data centers. groups of hackers may also act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service attacks, or other coordinated attacks. sophisticated organizations, individuals, or governments launch targeted attacks to gain access to our network. breaches of our network or data security could disrupt and compromise the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property, or otherwise adversely affect our business. in addition, our internal it environment continues to evolve. often we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. we embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. these practices can enhance efficiency and business insight, but they also present risks that our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed of these changes. security of our customers products and services security threats are a particular challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services. the threats to our own it infrastructure also affect our customers. customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect them to continue to do so. the security of our products and services is an important consideration in our customers purchasing decisions. we devote significant resources to defend against security threats, both to our internal it systems and those of our customers. these include: engineering more secure products and services; enhancing security and reliability features in our products and services, and continuously evaluating and updating those security and reliability features; improving the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities; investing in mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed; 17 table of contents part i item 1a protecting the digital security infrastructure that ensures the integrity of our products and services; helping our customers make the best use of our products and services to protect against computer viruses and other attacks; and providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such as firewalls and anti-virus software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. despite these efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could cause significant reputational harm and lead some customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. customers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. legislative or regulatory action may increase the costs to develop or implement our products and services. improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. as we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. at the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. this environment demands that we continuously improve our design and coordination of security controls across our business groups and geographies. despite these efforts, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information that we or our vendors store and manage. improper disclosure of this information could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on premise or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. we believe consumers using our email, messaging, storage, sharing, and social networking services will increasingly want efficient, centralized methods of choosing their privacy preferences and controlling their data. perceptions that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could constrain consumer and business adoption of our cloud-based solutions. we may experience outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our data centers, and to introduce new products and services and support existing services such as bing, exchange online, office 365, sharepoint online, skydrive, skype, xbox live, windows azure, outlook.com, and microsoft office web apps. we also are growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third-party businesses to their end customers. maintaining and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to government litigation and regulatory activity that may limit how we design and market our products. as a leading global software maker, we are closely scrutinized by government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. for example, we were sued on competition law grounds by the u.s. department of justice, 18 states, and the district of columbia in the late 1990s. the resolution of the government lawsuits imposed various constraints on our windows operating system businesses. although these constraints expired in may 2011, we expect that federal and state antitrust authorities will continue to closely scrutinize our business. 18 table of contents part i item 1a the european commission closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments offered by microsoft to address the commission concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address commission concerns relating to interoperability. these obligations may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products which could hamper sales of our products. government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. new competition law actions could be initiated at any time. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. the rulings described above may be used as precedent in other competition law proceedings. we are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments as a result of court or administrative orders, consent decrees or other voluntary actions we have taken. if we fail to comply with these commitments we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions. for example, in july 2012, we announced that, for some pcs sold in europe, we were not in compliance with our 2009 agreement to display a browser choice screen on windows pcs where internet explorer is the default browser. as a result, the european commission imposed a fine of 561 million (approximately $733 million). our products and online services offerings, including new technologies we develop or acquire such as skype, are subject to government regulation in some jurisdictions, including in areas of user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. the application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. additionally these laws and governments approach to their enforcement, as well as our products and services, are continuing to evolve. compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenue. the development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. new products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. our increasing focus on devices and cloud-based services also presents new and complex development issues. significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. 19 table of contents part i item 1a adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may result in lower it spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. our product distribution system also relies on an extensive partner and retail network. oems building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, oem, or retailer, could result in sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of u.s. government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our financial statements also could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals from congress to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flows. our hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems. our vertically-integrated hardware products such as the xbox 360 console, surface, and other hardware devices we design and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. we obtain some components of our hardware devices from sole suppliers. our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the amount of capacity available to us. if a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. xbox 360 consoles and surface are assembled in asia; disruptions in the supply chain may result in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. our stand-alone software products also may experience quality or reliability problems. the highly sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could result in reduced sales and revenue, damage to our 20 table of contents part i item 1a, 1b reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. we acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. we test goodwill for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. for example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we recorded a $6.2 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill in our online services division business segment. we operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks. we operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. competitive or regulatory pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the u.s. and other countries. operations outside the u.s. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. the foreign corrupt practices act and local laws ( anti-corruption laws ) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. while we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented certain policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, if we fail to comply with anti-corruption laws, we may be exposed to significant fines and penalties. emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. the developing nature of these markets presents a number of risks. deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, such as current uncertainties relating to european economic weakness, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, may also adversely affect our operations or financial results. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are near major earthquake faults. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. our move toward providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may result in supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may adversely affect our revenue. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy in general or the it industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. a portion of these risks is hedged, but they may impact our financial statements. foreign currency certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable to offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. interest rate our fixed-income portfolio is diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily of investment-grade securities. the credit risk and average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio is managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. in addition, we use to be announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency and mortgage-backed securities. equity our equity portfolio consists of global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject to market price risk. we manage the securities relative to certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. commodity we use broad-based commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. our investment portfolio has exposure to a variety of commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. we manage these exposures relative to global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. value-at-risk we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in the fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( u.s. gaap ), but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the distribution of the potential changes in total market value of all holdings is computed based on the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. the var is calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. 47 table of contents part ii item 7a the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of june 30, 2013 and 2012 and for the year ended june 30, 2013: (in millions) june 30, 2013 june 30, 2012 year ended june 30, 2013 risk categories average high low foreign currency $ 199 $ 98 $ 215 $ 256 $ 90 interest rate $ 85 $ 71 $ 73 $ 86 $ 63 equity $ 181 $ 205 $ 198 $ 211 $ 178 commodity $ 19 $ 18 $ 20 $ 24 $ 18 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $350 million at june 30, 2013 and $292 million at june 30, 2012. the total var is 28% less at june 30, 2013, and 26% less at june 30, 2012, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the above table due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. 48 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 15 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. competition in the technology sector our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. barriers to entry in our businesses are low and software products can 15 table of contents part i item 1a be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. the strategic importance of developing and maintaining a vibrant ecosystem increased with the launch of the windows 8 operating system, surface, windows phone, xbox one, and associated cloud-based services. we face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications, and services. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and digital music players. competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform. we also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services; however, our competitors in smartphones and tablets have established significantly larger user bases. competing with the vertically integrated model will increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. we derive substantial revenue from licenses of windows operating systems on personal computers. we face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. these devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our platforms. competing operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease pc operating system margins. in addition, surface competes with products made by our oem partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. the success of the windows phone platform is an important element of our goal to enhance personal productivity in a mobile-first and cloud-first world. the marketplace among mobile phone platforms is highly competitive. we may face issues in selecting, engaging or securing support from operators and retailers for windows phones due to, for instance, inadequate sales training or incentives, or insufficient marketing support for the windows phone platform. competing platforms have application marketplaces (sometimes referred to as stores ) with scale and significant installed bases on mobile devices. the variety and utility of applications available on a platform is important to device purchasing decisions. users incur costs to move data and buy new applications when switching platforms. to compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal, and value. efforts to compete with these application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. business model competition companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. even as we transition to a mobile-first and cloud-first strategy, the license-based proprietary software model generates most of our software revenue. we bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model. 16 table of contents part i item 1a other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products. the competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. this may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. our increasing focus on services presents execution and competitive risks. a growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. in july 2014, our leadership announced its strategic vision to compete and grow as a productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. at the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. the windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. we are embracing cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including: continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including pcs, smartphones, tablets, and television-related devices, including gaming consoles; continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers; ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data; and making our suite of cloud-based services platform agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors. it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. if we are not effective in executing organizational changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenues in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. this may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the windows operating system, the microsoft office system, bing, windows phone, windows server, the windows store, the microsoft azure services platform, office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the xbox entertainment platform. we also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication and entertainment including pcs, tablets, phones, and gaming devices. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and 17 table of contents part i item 1a distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. developing new technologies is complex and time-consuming. it can require long development and testing periods. significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. these transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we get no satisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or that the transaction distracts management from our other businesses. the success of these transactions will depend in part on our ability to leverage them enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones. it may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. these events could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. in april 2014, we acquired from nokia substantially all of its nds business to accelerate our growth in phones and support the entire windows ecosystem. we may not realize all of the anticipated financial and other benefits from this transaction including operating efficiencies and cost savings. we may not be successful in developing a vibrant and competitive ecosystem for windows-based phones that combines differentiated hardware, software, services, and third-party applications. we may not achieve mobile phone market share targets. we may see lower than expected growth rates for the phone markets. the mix of premium and lower-cost devices we sell may put downward pressure on prices or margins. we may not be effective in executing the restructuring we announced in july 2014 or otherwise integrating the nds business with microsoft ongoing operations, including matching manufacturing capacity to demand. existing microsoft smart device original equipment manufacturers may respond negatively to the changes in our business or the new competitive environment. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. we acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. we test goodwill for impairment at least annually. factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. we may be required to record a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. for example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we recorded a $6.2 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill in our previous online services division business (devices and consumer other under our current segment structure). the valuation of acquired assets and liabilities, including goodwill, resulting from the acquisition of nds, is reflective of the enterprise value based on the long-term financial forecast for the business. in this highly competitive and volatile market, we may not realize our forecasts. as a result, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements due to an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. our revenue in these markets may grow slower than the underlying device market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we educate consumers about the 18 table of contents part i item 1a benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as surface and lumia phones. to resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. these outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. in some countries, such as germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. we have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if a significant portion of our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that source code. it may become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position. security of microsoft information technology threats to information technology ( it ) security can take a variety of forms. individual and groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations, may take steps that pose threats to our customers and our it. they may develop and deploy malicious software to attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and datacenters, or act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers. breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. in addition, our internal it environment continues to evolve. often we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. we embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed of these changes as new threats emerge. security of our product, services, devices and customers data security threats are a particular challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services. threats to our own it infrastructure can also affect our customers. customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. hackers 19 table of contents part i item 1a tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. the security of our products and services is important in our customers purchasing decisions. to defend against security threats, both to our internal it systems and those of our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. if we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. customers may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install security patches. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. legislative or regulatory action in these areas may increase the costs to develop, implement or secure our products and services. disclosure of personal data could cause liability and harm our reputation. as we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of customer data we or our vendors store and manage. improper disclosure could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. like all providers of communications services, government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer data in response to valid legal orders. in the u.s. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. despite our efforts to protect customer data, perceptions that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities. additional security measures we may take to address customer concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses. we may have outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic, growth in services and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we spend substantial amounts to build, purchase or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. these demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as bing, exchange online, office 365, sharepoint online, onedrive, skype, xbox live, microsoft azure, outlook.com, microsoft office web apps, windows stores and microsoft account services. we are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third-parties to their end users. maintaining, securing and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. 20 table of contents part i item 1a government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. as a leading global software and device maker, we are closely scrutinized by government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. an increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities and this includes increased scrutiny in potentially large markets such as china. some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. u.s. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business. the european commission closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments offered by microsoft to address the commission concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address commission concerns relating to interoperability. these obligations may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products. our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our oem partners offer a large variety of devices on our platforms. as a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our oem partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase. certain foreign governments, particularly in china and other countries in asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. because these jurisdictions only recently implemented competition laws, their enforcement activities are unpredictable. government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. new competition law actions could be initiated. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. the rulings described above may be precedent in other competition law proceedings. we are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees or other voluntary actions we have taken. if we fail to comply with these commitments we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions. our international operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations ( anti-corruption laws ) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. from time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the u.s. and elsewhere about our business activities outside the u.s. and our compliance with anti-corruption laws. while we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. our failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. operations outside the u.s. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. we may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of u.s. trade sanctions on countries such as iran, north korea, cuba, sudan, and syria. 21 table of contents part i item 1a other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. for example, regulators may take the position that our offerings such as skype are covered by laws regulating telecommunications services. applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. additionally, these laws and governments approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve. some governments are expressing increasing concern about government surveillance practices around the world and this may lead to increased regulation requiring local hosting obligations or the use of domestic hosting providers. compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, including key employees of the nds business acquired in april 2014, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals from congress to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flows. our hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems. our vertically-integrated hardware products such as xbox consoles, surface devices, lumia smartphones, and other devices we design and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. we get some device components from sole suppliers. our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us. if a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint or industry shortages, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. xbox consoles and surface devices and lumia phones are assembled in asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. 22 table of contents part i item 1a our software products also may experience quality or reliability problems. the highly sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. we operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. the global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. the developing nature of these markets presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue. competitive or regulatory pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the u.s. and other countries. catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are near major earthquake faults. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may adversely affect our revenue. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy or the it industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower it spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. substantial revenue comes from our u.s. government contracts. an extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government it spending on our products and services and adversely affect our revenues. our product distribution system also relies on an extensive partner and retail network. oems building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, oem, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. a significant part of our investment portfolio comprises u.s. government securities. if global credit and equity markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. 23 table of contents part i item 1b, 2, 3, 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. a portion of these risks is hedged, but they may impact our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable to offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and canadian dollar. interest rate our fixed-income portfolio is diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily of investment-grade securities. the credit risk and average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio is managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. in addition, we use to be announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency and mortgage-backed securities. equity our equity portfolio consists of global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject to market price risk. we manage the securities relative to certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. commodity we use broad-based commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. our investment portfolio has exposure to a variety of commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. we manage these exposures relative to global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. value-at-risk we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in the fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( u.s. gaap ), but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the distribution of the potential changes in total market value of all holdings is computed based on the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. the var is calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. 51 table of contents part ii item 7a the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of june 30, 2014 and 2013 and for the year ended june 30, 2014: (in millions) june 30, 2014 june 30, 2013 year ended june 30, 2014 risk categories average high low foreign currency $ 179 $ 199 $ 215 $ 287 $ 117 interest rate $ 73 $ 85 $ 82 $ 91 $ 73 equity $ 176 $ 181 $ 208 $ 246 $ 173 commodity $ 17 $ 19 $ 18 $ 21 $ 16 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $333 million at june 30, 2014 and $350 million at june 30, 2013. the total var is 25% less at june 30, 2014, and 28% less at june 30, 2013, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the table above due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. 52 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 18 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. competition in the technology sector our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. we face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications, and services. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and wearables. competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform. we also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services; however, our competitors in smartphones and tablets have established significantly larger user bases. shifting a portion of our business to a vertically integrated model will increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. we derive substantial revenue from licenses of windows operating systems on personal computers. we face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. these devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our pc operating system platforms. competing with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease our pc operating system margins. in addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our oem partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. the success of the windows phone platform is an important element of our goal to enhance personal productivity in a mobile-first and cloud-first world. the marketplace among mobile phone platforms is highly competitive. we may face issues in selecting, engaging, or securing support from operators and retailers for windows phones due to, for instance, inadequate sales training or incentives, or insufficient marketing support for the windows phone platform. competing platforms have application marketplaces (sometimes referred to as stores ) with scale and significant installed bases. the variety and utility of applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions. users incur costs to move data and buy new applications when switching platforms. to compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal, and value. efforts to compete with competitors application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. 18 table of contents part i item 1a business model competition companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. even as we transition to a mobile-first and cloud-first strategy, the license-based proprietary software model generates most of our software revenue. we bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model. other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users, and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products. the competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. this may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. our increasing focus on services presents execution and competitive risks. a growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. our strategic vision is to compete and grow as a productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. at the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. the windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. we are undertaking cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. the company increasing reliance on data-driven insights is becoming more important to the success of key opportunities in monetization, customer perceptions of quality, and operational efficiency. besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including: continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share. maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including pcs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other television-related devices. continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers. ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. making our suite of cloud-based services platform agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors. it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. if we are not effective in executing organizational and technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. this may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. 19 table of contents part i item 1a we make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve expected returns. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the windows operating system, the microsoft office system, bing, windows phone, windows server, the windows store, the microsoft azure services platform, office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the xbox entertainment platform. we also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including pcs, tablets, phones, and gaming devices. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. the launch of windows 10, with free upgrades available to existing users of windows 7 and 8.1, constitutes the most ambitious update effort we have ever undertaken. we have done extensive preparation and compatibility testing for applications and devices to help ensure a positive experience for our users installing windows 10. however, if users have a negative upgrade experience, or the community reacts negatively to the process we are following to promote and undertake the upgrades, the reception of windows 10 in the marketplace may be harmed. in addition, we anticipate that windows 10 will enable new post-license monetization opportunities beyond initial license revenues. our failure to realize these opportunities to the extent we expect could have an adverse impact on our revenues. developing new technologies is complex. it can require long development and testing periods. significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. these transactions and arrangements involve significant challenges and risks including that they do not advance our business strategy, that we get an unsatisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or that they distract management from our other businesses. if an arrangement fails to adequately anticipate changing circumstances and interests of a party, it may result in early termination or renegotiation of the arrangement. the success of these transactions and arrangements will depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones. it may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions and arrangements, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. these events could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. we acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. we test goodwill for impairment at least annually. factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. we may be required to record a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. for example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we recorded a $6.2 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill in our previous online services division business (devices and consumer other under our current segment structure), and in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015, we recorded a $5.1 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill and a $2.2 billion charge for the impairment of intangible assets in our phone hardware segment. 20 table of contents part i item 1a we may not earn the revenues we expect from our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. our revenue in these markets may grow slower than the underlying device market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. we may not receive expected royalties from our patent licenses we expend significant resources to patent the intellectual property we create with the expectation that we will generate revenues by incorporating that intellectual property in our products or services or, in some instances, by licensing our patents to others in return for a royalty. changes in the law may weaken our ability to prevent the use of patented technology or collect revenue for licensing our patents. these include legislative changes and regulatory actions that make it more difficult to obtain injunctions, and the increasing use of legal process to challenge issued patents. similarly, licensees of our patents may fail to satisfy their obligations to pay us royalties, or may contest the scope and extent of their obligations. finally, the royalties we can obtain to monetize our intellectual property may decline because of the evolution of technology, selling price changes in products using licensed patents, or the difficulty of discovering infringements. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as surface and lumia phones. to resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. these outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. in some countries, such as germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. we have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if a significant portion of our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that source code. it may become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. 21 table of contents part i item 1a cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position. security of microsoft information technology threats to it security can take a variety of forms. individual and groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states themselves, may take steps that pose threats to our customers and our it. they may develop and deploy malicious software to attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and datacenters, or act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems, and those of our partners and customers. breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. in addition, our internal it environment continues to evolve. often we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. we embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. security of our products, services, devices, and customers data security threats are a particular challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services. threats to our own it infrastructure can also affect our customers. customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. the security of our products and services is important in our customers purchasing decisions. to defend against security threats, both to our internal it systems and those of our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. if we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. customers may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install security patches. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. legislative or regulatory action in these areas may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services. disclosure of personal data could cause liability and harm our reputation. as we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our 22 table of contents part i item 1a training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of customer data we or our vendors store and manage. improper disclosure could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer data in response to valid legal orders. in the u.s. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. despite our efforts to protect customer data, perceptions that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities. additional security measures we may take to address customer concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses. we may have outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. these demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as bing, exchange online, office 365, sharepoint online, onedrive, skype, xbox live, microsoft azure, outlook.com, windows stores, and microsoft account services. we are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users. maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. it requires that we maintain an internet connectivity infrastructure that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data or insufficient internet connectivity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. as a leading global software and device maker, we are closely scrutinized by government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. an increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities and this includes increased scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the european union, the u.s., and china. some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. u.s. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business. the european commission ( the commission ) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of our windows operating system that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments offered by microsoft to address the commission concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address commission concerns relating to interoperability. the web browsing commitments expired in 2014. the remaining obligations may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products. our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our oem partners offer a large variety of devices on our platforms. as a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our oem partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase. certain foreign governments, particularly in china and other countries in asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. because these jurisdictions only recently implemented competition laws, their enforcement activities are unpredictable. 23 table of contents part i item 1a government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. new competition law actions could be initiated. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. the rulings described above may be precedent in other competition law proceedings. we are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees, or other voluntary actions we have taken. if we fail to comply with these commitments, we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions. our ability to realize anticipated windows 10 post-sale monetization opportunities may be limited. our global operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations ( anti-corruption laws ) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. from time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the u.s. and elsewhere about our business activities outside the u.s. and our compliance with anti-corruption laws. while we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. our failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. operations outside the u.s. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies, and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. we may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of u.s. trade sanctions on countries such as iran, north korea, cuba, sudan, and syria. other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, and online content. for example, regulators may take the position that our offerings such as skype are covered by laws regulating telecommunications services. applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. additionally, these laws and governments approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve. increasing concern about government surveillance practices around the world may lead to increased regulation requiring local data hosting obligations or the use of domestic hosting providers. compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. geopolitical instability may lead to sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some geographies. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the litigation and other claims are 24 table of contents part i item 1a subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods in which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals from congress to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flows. our hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems. our vertically-integrated hardware products such as xbox consoles, surface devices, phones, and other devices we design, manufacture, and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. we acquire some device components from sole suppliers. our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us. if a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint or industry shortages, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. xbox consoles, surface devices, phones, and other hardware are assembled in asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. our software products also may experience quality or reliability problems. the highly sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. our customers are located in over 200 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. the global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. the developing nature of these markets presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue. competitive or regulatory pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the u.s. and other countries. catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the 25 table of contents part i item 1a, 1b, 2 silicon valley area of california, both of which are seismically active regions. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may adversely affect our revenue. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy or the it industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy or other natural resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower it spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. substantial revenue comes from our u.s. government contracts. an extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government it spending on our products and services and adversely affect our revenue. our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network. oems building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, oem, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. a significant part of our investment portfolio comprises u.s. government securities. if global credit and equity markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. a portion of these risks is hedged, but they may impact our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable to offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. interest rate our fixed-income portfolio is diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily of investment-grade securities. the credit risk and average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio is managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. in addition, we use to be announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency mortgage-backed securities. equity our equity portfolio consists of global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject to market price risk. we manage the securities relative to certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. commodity we use broad-based commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. our investment portfolio has exposure to a variety of commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. we manage these exposures relative to global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. value-at-risk we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in the fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with u.s. gaap, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the distribution of the potential changes in total market value of all holdings is computed based on the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. the var is calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. 51 table of contents part ii item 7a the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of june 30, 2015 and 2014 and for the year ended june 30, 2015: (in millions) june 30, 2015 june 30, 2014 year ended june 30, 2015 risk categories average high low foreign currency $ 120 $ 179 $ 162 $ 200 $ 107 interest rate $ 51 $ 73 $ 57 $ 74 $ 48 equity $ 149 $ 176 $ 161 $ 178 $ 146 commodity $ 13 $ 17 $ 16 $ 20 $ 11 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $237 million at june 30, 2015 and $333 million at june 30, 2014. the total var is 29% less at june 30, 2015, and 25% less at june 30, 2014, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the table above due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. 52 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 17 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. competition in the technology sector our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. we face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications, and services. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and wearables. competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform. we also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services. to the extent we shift a portion of our business to a vertically integrated model we increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. we derive substantial revenue from licenses of windows operating systems on personal computers. we face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. these devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to 17 table of contents part i item 1a attract application developers to our pc operating system platforms. competing with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease our pc operating system margins. in addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our oem partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. competing platforms have application marketplaces (sometimes referred to as stores ) with scale and significant installed bases. the variety and utility of applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions. users incur costs to move data and buy new applications when switching platforms. to compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal, and value. efforts to compete with competitors application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. business model competition companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. even as we transition to a mobile-first and cloud-first strategy, the license-based proprietary software model generates most of our software revenue. we bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model. other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users, and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products. the competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. this may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. our increasing focus on services presents execution and competitive risks. a growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. our strategic vision is to compete and grow as a productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. at the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. the windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. we are undertaking cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. the company increasing reliance on data-driven insights is becoming more important to the success of key opportunities in monetization, customer perceptions of quality, and operational efficiency. besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including: continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share. maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including pcs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other television-related devices. continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers. 18 table of contents part i item 1a ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors. it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. if we are not effective in executing organizational and technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. this may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve expected returns. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the windows operating system, the microsoft office system, bing, windows phone, windows server, the windows store, the microsoft azure services platform, office 365, other cloud-based offerings, and the xbox entertainment platform. we also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including pcs, tablets, phones, and gaming devices. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. the launch of windows 10, with free upgrades available to existing users of windows 7 and 8.1, constitutes the most ambitious update effort we have ever undertaken. we have done extensive preparation and compatibility testing for applications and devices to help ensure a positive experience for our users installing windows 10. however, if users have a negative upgrade experience, or the community reacts negatively to the process we are following to promote and undertake the upgrades, the reception of windows 10 in the marketplace may be harmed, and customers or government agencies may bring litigation or regulatory actions. in addition, we anticipate that windows 10 will enable new post-license monetization opportunities beyond initial license revenues. our failure to realize these opportunities to the extent we expect could have an adverse impact on our revenues. finally, our practices around data collection, use, and management in windows 10 could result in regulatory review and decisions directing us to change these practices and imposing fines. if so, we could face negative public reaction, degraded user experiences, and reduced flexibility in product design. developing new technologies is complex. it can require long development and testing periods. significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. in june 2016, we announced our acquisition of linkedin for approximately $26.2 billion. the linkedin acquisition and other transactions and arrangements involve significant challenges and risks, including that they do not advance our business strategy, that we get an unsatisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or that they distract management from our other businesses. if an arrangement fails to adequately anticipate changing circumstances and interests of a party, it may result in early termination or renegotiation of the arrangement. the success of these transactions and arrangements will depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones. it may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions and arrangements, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. these events could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. 19 table of contents part i item 1a if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. we acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. we test goodwill for impairment at least annually. factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. we may be required to record a significant charge on our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. for example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015, we recorded a $5.1 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill and a $2.2 billion charge for the impairment of intangible assets, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016 we recorded a $480 million charge for the impairment of intangible assets. the impairment charges for both periods related to our phone business. our acquisition of linkedin will result in a significant increase in our goodwill and intangible asset balances. we may not earn the revenues we expect from our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. our revenue in these markets may grow slower than the underlying device market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. we may not receive expected royalties from our patent licenses we expend significant resources to patent the intellectual property we create with the expectation that we will generate revenues by incorporating that intellectual property in our products or services or, in some instances, by licensing our patents to others in return for a royalty. changes in the law may weaken our ability to prevent the use of patented technology or collect revenue for licensing our patents. these include legislative changes and regulatory actions that make it more difficult to obtain injunctions, and the increasing use of legal process to challenge issued patents. similarly, licensees of our patents may fail to satisfy their obligations to pay us royalties, or may contest the scope and extent of their obligations. finally, the royalties we can obtain to monetize our intellectual property may decline because of the evolution of technology, selling price changes in products using licensed patents, or the difficulty of discovering infringements. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as surface and lumia phones. to resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. these outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. in some countries, such as germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. we have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. 20 table of contents part i item 1a we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if a significant portion of our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that source code. it may become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position. security of microsoft information technology threats to it security can take a variety of forms. individual and groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states themselves, may take steps that pose threats to our customers and our it. these actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software to attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers. breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. in addition, our internal it environment continues to evolve. often we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. we embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. security of our products, services, devices, and customers data security threats are a particular challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services. threats to our own it infrastructure can also affect our customers. customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. the security of our products and services is important in our customers purchasing decisions. to defend against security threats, both to our internal it systems and those of our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. if we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional 21 table of contents part i item 1a products or services. customers may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install security patches. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. legislative or regulatory action in these areas may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services. disclosure of personal data could cause liability and harm our reputation. as we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of customer data we or our vendors store and manage. improper disclosure could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer data in response to valid legal orders. in the u.s. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. despite our efforts to protect customer data, perceptions that the collection, use and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities. additional security measures we may take to address customer concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses. we may have outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. these demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as bing, exchange online, office 365, sharepoint online, onedrive, skype, xbox live, microsoft azure, outlook.com, windows stores, and microsoft account services. we are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users. maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. it requires that we maintain an internet connectivity infrastructure that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data or insufficient internet connectivity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. as a leading global software and device maker, we are closely scrutinized by government agencies under u.s. and foreign competition laws. an increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities and this includes increased scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the european union ( eu ), the u.s., and china. some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. u.s. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business. the european commission ( the commission ) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. flagship product releases such as windows 10 can receive significant scrutiny under competition laws. for example, in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of our windows operating system that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our 22 table of contents part i item 1a competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments offered by microsoft to address the commission concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address commission concerns relating to interoperability. the web browsing commitments expired in 2014. the remaining obligations may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products. our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our oem partners offer a large variety of devices on our platforms. as a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our oem partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase. certain foreign governments, particularly in china and other countries in asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. because these jurisdictions only recently implemented competition laws, their enforcement activities are unpredictable. government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. new competition law actions could be initiated. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. the rulings described above may be precedent in other competition law proceedings. we are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees, or other voluntary actions we have taken. if we fail to comply with these commitments, we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions. our ability to realize anticipated windows 10 post-sale monetization opportunities may be limited. our global operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations ( anti-corruption laws ) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. from time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the u.s. and elsewhere and reports from employees and others about our business activities outside the u.s. and our compliance with anti-corruption laws. specifically, we have been cooperating with authorities in the us in connection with reports concerning our compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act in various countries. while we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. our failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. geopolitical instability may lead to sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some geographies. operations outside the u.s. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies, and measures, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. we may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of u.s. trade sanctions on countries such as iran, north korea, cuba, sudan, and syria. other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, and online content. for example, regulators may take the position that our offerings such as skype are covered by laws regulating telecommunications services. applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from 23 table of contents part i item 1a jurisdiction to jurisdiction. additionally, these laws and governments approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve. compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us. the growth of our internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. for example, in october 2015 the european court of justice ( ecj ) invalidated the eu/u.s. safe harbor framework, in place since 2000, that enabled companies to transfer data from eu member states to the u.s. although other legally-recognized methods to enable data transfers currently remain valid, the reasoning of the ecj striking down the safe harbor framework could be used to challenge those methods in future complaints. there is a recognized need for a new regulatory safe harbor framework that will also support other methods of data transfer between the eu and u.s. outcomes may include a new trans-atlantic data transfer agreement, a new eu data protection directive, or a range of legal requirements adopted by individual eu member states, or no action at all. one or more of these outcomes may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements affecting the location and movement of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data. compliance may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. how employment-related laws are interpreted and applied to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. these claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases such as windows 10, significant business transactions, and employment practices. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation in the jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods in which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals from congress to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flows. 24 table of contents part i item 1a our hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems. our vertically-integrated hardware products such as xbox consoles, surface devices, phones, and other devices we design, manufacture, and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. we acquire some device components from sole suppliers. our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us. if a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint or industry shortages, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. xbox consoles, surface devices, phones, and other hardware are assembled in asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. our software products also may experience quality or reliability problems. the highly sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. we strive to empower all people and organizations to achieve more and accessibility of our products is an important aspect of this goal. there is increasing pressure from advocacy groups, regulators, competitors, and customers to make technology more accessible. if our products do not meet customer expectations or emerging global accessibility requirements, we could lose sales opportunities or face regulatory actions. our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. our customers are located in over 200 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. the global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. the developing nature of these markets presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue. competitive or regulatory pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the u.s. and other countries. catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are seismically active regions. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may adversely affect our revenue. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy or the it industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy or other natural resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. 25 table of contents part i item 1a, 1b, 2 adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower it spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. substantial revenue comes from our u.s. government contracts. an extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government it spending on our products and services and adversely affect our revenue. our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network. oems building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, oem, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. a significant part of our investment portfolio comprises u.s. government securities. if global credit and equity markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. a portion of these risks is hedged, but they may impact our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable to offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. interest rate our fixed-income portfolio is diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily of investment-grade securities. the credit risk and average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio is managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. in addition, we use to be announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency mortgage-backed securities. equity our equity portfolio consists of global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject to market price risk. we manage the securities relative to certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. commodity we use broad-based commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. our investment portfolio has exposure to a variety of commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. we manage these exposures relative to global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. value-at-risk we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in the fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with u.s. gaap, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the distribution of the potential changes in total market value of all holdings is computed based on the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. the var is calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. 50 table of contents part ii item 7a the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of june 30, 2016 and 2015 and for the year ended june 30, 2016: (in millions) june 30, 2016 june 30, 2015 year ended june 30, 2016 risk categories average high low foreign currency $ 92 $ 120 $ 171 $ 258 $ 83 interest rate $ 58 $ 51 $ 56 $ 63 $ 50 equity $ 157 $ 149 $ 163 $ 178 $ 137 commodity $ 12 $ 13 $ 10 $ 14 $ 6 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $225 million as of june 30, 2016 and $237 million as of june 30, 2015. the total var is 29% less as of june 30, 2016 and june 30, 2015, respectively, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the table above due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. 51 table of contents part ii item 8risk factors 17 ris k factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. competition in the technology sector our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. we face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications, and services. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and wearables. competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform. we also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services. to the extent we shift a portion of our business to a vertically integrated model we increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. we derive substantial revenue from licenses of windows operating systems on personal computers. we face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. these devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our pc operating system platforms. competing with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease our pc operating system margins. in addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our oem partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases. the variety and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions. users sometimes incur costs to move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms. to compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal, and value. efforts to compete with competitors' content and application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. business model competition companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. even as we transition more of our business to a services and subscription business model, the license-based proprietary software model generates most of our software revenue. we bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model. 17 part i item 1a other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party adve rtising. advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users, and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products. the competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. this may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. our increasing focus on services presents execution and competitive risks. a growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. our strategic vision is to compete and grow by building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with ai. at the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user's choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. the windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. we are undertaking cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. the company's investment in gaining insights from data is becoming central to the value of the services we deliver to customers, to our operational efficiency and key opportunities in monetization, customer perceptions of quality, and operational efficiency. our ability to use data in this way may be constrained by regulatory developments that impede realizing the expected return from this investment. besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including: continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share. maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including pcs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other television-related devices. continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers. ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors. it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. if we are not effective in executing organizational and technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. this may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. we make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve expected returns. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the windows operating system, the microsoft office system, bing, windows server, the windows store, the microsoft azure services platform, office 365, other cloud-based offerings, and the xbox entertainment platform. we also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including pcs, tablets, gaming devices, and hololens. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and 18 part i item 1a distr ibution channel investments for several years, if at all. new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced histor ically. we did extensive preparation and ongoing compatibility testing for applications and devices to help ensure a positive experience for our users installing windows 10. however, negative upgrade experiences could adversely affect the reception of windows 10 in the marketplace and could lead to litigation or regulatory actions by customers and government agencies. in addition, we anticipate that windows 10 will enable new post-license monetization opportunities beyond initial license revenues. our inability to realize these opportunities to the extent we expect could have an adverse impact on our revenues. finally, our practices for data collection, use, and management in windows 10 are subject to regulatory review, and may result in decisions directing us to change these practices and imposing fines. if so, we could face negative public reaction, degraded user experiences, and reduced flexibility in product design. developing new technologies is complex. it can require long development and testing periods. significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. in december 2016, we completed our acquisition of linkedin for $27.0 billion. the linkedin acquisition and other transactions and arrangements involve significant challenges and risks, including that they do not advance our business strategy, that we get an unsatisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating and retaining new employees, business systems, and technology, or that they distract management from our other businesses. if an arrangement fails to adequately anticipate changing circumstances and interests of a party, it may result in early termination or renegotiation of the arrangement. the success of these transactions and arrangements will depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones. it may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions and arrangements, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. these events could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. we acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. we test goodwill for impairment at least annually. factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. we may be required to record a significant charge on our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. for example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015, we recorded a $5.1 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill and a $2.2 billion charge for the impairment of intangible assets, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016 we recorded a $480 million charge for the impairment of intangible assets. the impairment charges for both periods related to our phone business. our acquisition of linkedin resulted in a significant increase in our goodwill and intangible asset balances. we may not earn the revenues we expect from our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property on a global basis is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. our revenue in these markets may grow slower than the underlying device market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we educate users about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. 19 part i item 1a we may not receive expected royalties from our patent licenses we expend significant resources to patent the intellectual property we create with the expectation that we will generate revenues by incorporating that intellectual property in our products or services or, in some instances, by licensing our patents to others in return for a royalty. changes in the law may weaken our ability to prevent the use of patented technology or collect revenue for licensing our patents. these include legislative changes and regulatory actions that make it more difficult to obtain injunctions, and the increasing use of legal process to challenge issued patents. similarly, licensees of our patents may fail to satisfy their obligations to pay us royalties, or may contest the scope and extent of their obligations. finally, the royalties we can obtain to monetize our intellectual property may decline because of the evolution of technology, selling price changes in products using licensed patents, or the difficulty of discovering infringements. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as surface and lumia phones. to resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. these outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. in some countries, such as germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. we have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if a significant portion of our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that source code. it may become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position. security of microsoft's information technology threats to it security can take a variety of forms. individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our it. these actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software to attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users' or customers' data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. cyber threats are constantly evolving, increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers. breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. in addition, our internal it environment continues to evolve. often, we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. we embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. 20 part i item 1a security of our products, services, devices, and customers' data the security of our products and services is important in our customers' decisions to purchase or use our products or services. security threats are a challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services. threats to our own it infrastructure can also affect our customers. customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. hackers that acquire user account information at other companies can use that information to compromise our users' accounts where accounts share the same attributes like passwords. to defend against security threats, both to our internal it systems and those of our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. if we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. customers may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install security patches. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. legislative or regulatory action in these areas may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services. disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. as we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of customer data we or our vendors store and manage. improper disclosure could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer data in response to valid legal orders. in the u.s. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. despite our efforts to protect customer data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities. additional security measures we may take to address customer concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses. we may have outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. these demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as bing, exchange online, microsoft azure, microsoft account services, office 365, onedrive, sharepoint online, skype, xbox live, outlook.com, and windows stores. we are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users. maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. it requires that we maintain an internet connectivity infrastructure that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data or insufficient internet connectivity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. 21 part i item 1a government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. as a leading global software and device maker, government agencies closely scruti nize us under u.s. and foreign competition laws. an increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities and this includes increased scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the european union ( eu ), the u.s., and china. some ju risdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. u.s. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business. the european commission ( the commission ) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. flagship product releases such as windows 10 can receive significant scrutiny under competition laws. for example, in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of our windows operating system that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments offered by microsoft to address the commission's concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address commission concerns relating to interoperability. the web browsing commitments expired in 2014. the remaining obligations may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products. our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our oem partners offer a large variety of devices on our platforms. as a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our oem partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase. certain foreign governments, particularly in china and other countries in asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. because these jurisdictions only recently implemented competition laws, their enforcement activities are unpredictable. government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. new competition law actions could be initiated. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. the rulings described above may be precedent in other competition law proceedings. we are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees, or other voluntary actions we have taken. if we fail to comply with these commitments, we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions. our ability to realize anticipated windows 10 post-sale monetization opportunities may be limited. our global operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations ( anti-corruption laws ) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. from time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the u.s. and elsewhere and reports from employees and others about our business activities outside the u.s. and our compliance with anti-corruption laws. specifically, we have been cooperating with authorities in the u.s. in connection with reports concerning our compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act in various countries. while we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. our failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. operations outside the u.s. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies, and measures, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. we may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of u.s. trade sanctions on countries such as iran, north korea, cuba, sudan, and syria. 22 part i item 1a other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, te lecommunications, data storage and protection, and online content. for example, regulators may take the position that our offerings such as skype are covered by laws regulating telecommunications services. data protection authorities may assert that our co llection, use, and management of customer data is inconsistent with their laws and regulations. applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. additionally, these laws and governments' approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve. compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us. the growth of our internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. for example, the eu and the u.s. formally entered into a new framework in july 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from eu member states to the u.s. this new framework, called the privacy shield, is intended to address shortcomings identified by the european court of justice in a predecessor mechanism. the privacy shield and other mechanisms are subject to review by the european courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers across the atlantic. in 2016, the eu adopted a new law governing data practices and privacy called the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which becomes effective in may 2018. the law requires firms to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. engineering efforts to build new capabilities to facilitate compliance with the law may entail substantial expense and the diversion of engineering resources from other projects. if we are unable to engineer products that meet microsoft's legal duties or help our customers meet their obligations under the gdpr or other data regulations, we might experience reduced demand for our offerings. non-compliance with the gdpr may result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. ongoing legal reviews by regulators may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements affecting the location and movement of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data. compliance may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. changes to u.s. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development efforts. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. how employment-related laws are interpreted and applied to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. these claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases such as windows 10, significant business transactions, warranty or product claims, and employment practices. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation in the jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods in which that determination is made. 23 part i item 1a we earn a significant amount of our operat ing income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals from congress to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and c ash flows. our hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems. our vertically-integrated hardware products such as xbox consoles, surface devices, and other devices we design, manufacture, and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm as a result of recalls, safety alerts, or product liability claims if we fail to prevent, detect, or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. we acquire some device components from sole suppliers. our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us. if a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint or industry shortages, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. xbox consoles, surface devices, and other hardware are assembled in asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. our software products also may experience quality or reliability problems. the highly-sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. we strive to empower all people and organizations to achieve more, and accessibility of our products is an important aspect of this goal. there is increasing pressure from advocacy groups, regulators, competitors, and customers to make technology more accessible. if our products do not meet customer expectations or emerging global accessibility requirements, we could lose sales opportunities or face regulatory actions. our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. our customers are located in over 200 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. the global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. the developing nature of these markets presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue. competitive or regulatory pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the u.s. and other countries. catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are seismically active regions. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. 24 part i item 1a abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affect ed countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers. geopolitical c hange may result in changing regulatory requirements that could impact our operating strategies, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. geopolitical instability may lead to sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some markets or wi th some public-sector customers. emerging nationalist trends in specific countries may significantly alter the trade environment. changes to trade policy or agreements may result in higher tariffs, local sourcing initiatives, or other developments that mak e it more difficult to sell our products in foreign countries. any of these changes may negatively impact our revenues. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy or the it industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy or other natural resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower it spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. substantial revenue comes from our u.s. government contracts. an extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government it spending on our products and services and adversely affect our revenue. our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network. oems building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, oem, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. a significant part of our investment portfolio comprises u.s. government securities. if global credit and equity markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. changes in our sales organization may impact revenues. in july 2017, we announced plans to reorganize our global sales organization to help enable customers' digital transformation, add greater technical ability to our sales force, and create pooled resources that can be used across countries and industries. the reorganization is the most significant change in our global sales organization in microsoft's history, involving employees changing roles, adding additional talent, realigning teams, and onboarding new partners. successfully executing these changes will be a significant factor in enabling future revenue growth. as we navigate through this transition, sales, profitability, and cash flow could be adversely impacted. 25 part i item 1b, 2, 3, 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitat ive disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. a portion of these risks is hedged, but they may impact our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable to offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. interest rate our fixed-income portfolio is diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily of investment-grade securities. the credit risk and average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio is managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. in addition, we use to be announced forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to gain exposure to agency mortgage-backed securities. equity our equity portfolio consists of global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject to market price risk. we manage the securities relative to certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. commodity we use broad-based commodity exposures to enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. our investment portfolio has exposure to a variety of commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. we manage these exposures relative to global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return to correlate with these indices. value-at-risk we use a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. var is the expected loss, for a given confidence level, in the fair value of our portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon. the var model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with u.s. gaap, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the distribution of the potential changes in total market value of all holdings is computed based on the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. the var is calculated as the total loss that will not be exceeded at the 97.5 percentile confidence level or, alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the var in 25 out of 1,000 cases. several risk factors are not captured in the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. 47 part ii item 7a the following table sets forth the one-day var for substantially all of our positions as of june 30, 2017 and 2016 and for the year ended june 30, 2017: (in millions) june 30, 2017 june 30, 2016 year ended june 30, 2017 risk categories average high low foreign currency $ 114 $ 92 $ 169 $ 303 $ 88 interest rate 152 58 113 155 57 equity 54 157 121 165 54 commodity 0 12 8 12 0 total one-day var for the combined risk categories was $207 million and $225 million as of june 30, 2017 and 2016. the total var is 35% and 29% less as of june 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, than the sum of the separate risk categories in the table above due to the diversification benefit of the combination of risks. 48 part ii item 8risk factors 17 ris k factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. competition in the technology sector our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. competition among platform-based ecosystems an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. we face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and wearables. competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform, including applications and content sold through their integrated marketplaces. they may also be able to claim security and performance benefits from their vertically integrated offer. we also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services. to the extent we shift a portion of our business to a vertically integrated model we increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. we derive substantial revenue from licenses of windows operating systems on personal computers. we face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. these devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our pc operating system platforms. competing with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease our pc operating system margins. popular products or services offered on competing platforms could increase their competitive strength. in addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our original equipment manufacturer ( oem ) partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases. the variety and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions. users sometimes incur costs to move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms. to compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our platform and ensure that these applications have high quality, security, customer appeal, and value. efforts to compete with competitors' content and application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. 17 part i item 1a business model competition companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. even as we transition more of our business to infrastructure-, platform-, and software-as-a-service business model, the license-based proprietary software model generates a substantial portion of our software revenue. we bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model. other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users, and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products. the competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. this may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. our increasing focus on cloud-based services presents execution and competitive risks. a growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. our strategic vision is to compete and grow by building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with artificial intelligence ( ai ). at the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user's choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. the windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. we are undertaking cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. our intelligent cloud and intelligent edge worldview is connected with the growth of the internet of things ( iot ). our success in the iot will depend on the level of adoption of our offerings such as microsoft azure, azure stack, azure iot edge, and azure sphere. we may not establish market share sufficient to achieve scale necessary to achieve our business objectives. besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including: continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share. maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including pcs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices, as well as sensors and other endpoints. continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers. ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors. it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. if we are not effective in executing organizational and technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. this may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. 18 part i item 1a we make significant investment in new products and services that may not achieve expected returns. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the windows operating system, micros oft 365, office, bing, microsoft sql server, windows server, the windows store, azure, office 365, xbox live, mixer, linkedin, and other cloud-based offerings. we also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, com munication, and entertainment including pcs, tablets, gaming devices, and hololens. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marke ting. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. we may not achieve signific ant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be a high as the margins we have experienced historically. we may not get engagement in certain features, like windows store, microsoft edge , and bing, that drive post-license monetization opportunities. our data handling practices across our products and ser vices will continue to be under scrutiny and perceptions of mismanagement, driven by regulatory activity or negative public reaction to our practices or product experiences, which could negatively impact product and feature adoption, product design , and pr oduct quality. developing new technologies is complex. it can require long development and testing periods. significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. in december 2016, we completed our acquisition of linkedin corporation for $27.0 billion. in june 2018, we announced an agreement to acquire github, inc. for $7.5 billion. these acquisitions and other transactions and arrangements involve significant challenges and risks, including that they do not advance our business strategy, that we get an unsatisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating and retaining new employees, business systems, and technology, or that they distract management from our other businesses. if an arrangement fails to adequately anticipate changing circumstances and interests of a party, it may result in early termination or renegotiation of the arrangement. the success of these transactions and arrangements will depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones. it may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions and arrangements, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. these events could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. we acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. we test goodwill for impairment at least annually. factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. we have in the past recorded, and may in the future be required to record a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. our acquisition of linkedin resulted in a significant increase in our goodwill and intangible asset balances. we may not earn the revenues we expect from our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property on a global basis is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly countries in which the legal system provides less protection for intellectual property rights. our revenue in these markets may grow more slowly than the underlying device market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we educate users about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. 19 part i item 1a we may not receive expected royalties from our patent licenses we expend significant resources to patent the intellectual property we create with the expectation that we will generate revenues by incorporating that intellectual property in our products or services or, in some instances, by licensing our patents to others in return for a royalty. changes in the law may continue to weaken our ability to prevent the use of patented technology or collect revenue for licensing our patents. these include legislative changes and regulatory actions that make it more difficult to obtain injunctions, and the increasing use of legal process to challenge issued patents. similarly, licensees of our patents may fail to satisfy their obligations to pay us royalties, or may contest the scope and extent of their obligations. finally, the royalties we can obtain to monetize our intellectual property may decline because of the evolution of technology, selling price changes in products using licensed patents, or the difficulty of discovering infringements. finally, our increasing engagement with open source software will also cause us to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations and may negatively impact revenue. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as microsoft surface. to resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. these outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. in some countries, such as germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. we have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that code. it may then become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. security of our information technology threats to it security can take a variety of forms. individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our it. these actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities in hardware, software, or other infrastructure in order to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users' or customers' data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access to confidential data. for example, system administrators may fail to timely remove employee account access when no longer appropriate. employees or third parties may intentionally compromise our or our users' security or systems, or reveal confidential information. 20 part i item 1a cyberthreats are constantly evolving, increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. we may have no current capability to detect certain vulnerabilities, which may allow them to persist in the environment over long periods of time. cyberthreats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers. breaches of our facilities, network , or data secur ity could disrupt the security of our systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their dat a, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. in addition, our internal it environment continues to evolve. often, we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. we embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. security of our products, services, devices, and customers' data the security of our products and services is important in our customers' decisions to purchase or use our products or services. security threats are a significant challenge to companies like us whose business is providing technology products and services to others. threats to our own it infrastructure can also affect our customers. customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. adversaries tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. adversaries that acquire user account information at other companies can use that information to compromise our users' accounts where accounts share the same attributes like passwords. inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access. we are also increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. there may be vulnerabilities in open source software that may make our products susceptible to cyberattacks. to defend against security threats to our internal it systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers' systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so. the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. if we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services, data corruption issues, or reduced performance could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. customers may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install or enable security patches. any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, but there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. at times, to achieve commercial objectives, we may enter into agreements with larger liability exposure to customers. as illustrated by the recent spectre and meltdown threats, our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem. if there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. 21 part i item 1a disclosure and misuse of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. as we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers and users. the continued occurrence of h igh-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of customer or user data we or our vendors store and manage. in addition, third parties who have limited access to our customer or user data may use this data in unauthorized ways. improper disclosure or misuse could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers or users, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increase d costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. government authorities can sometimes require us to pro duce customer or user data in response to valid legal orders. in the u.s. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. despite our efforts to protect custome r and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, an d government entities. additional security measures we may take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses or hinder growth of our products and services. we may not be able to protect information in our products and services from use by others . linkedin and other microsoft products and services contain valuable information and content protected by contractual restrictions or technical measures. in certain cases, we have made commitments to our members and users to limit access to or use of this information. changes in the law or interpretations of the law may weaken our ability to prevent third parties from scraping or gathering information or content through use of bots or other measures and using it for their own benefit, thus diminishing the value of our products and services. abuse of our advertising or social platforms may harm our reputation or user engagement. for linkedin, bing ads, and other products and services that provide content or host ads that come from or can be influenced by third parties, our reputation or user engagement may be negatively affected by activity that is hostile or inappropriate to other people, by users impersonating other people or organizations, by use of our products or services to disseminate information that may be viewed as misleading or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users, or by the use of our products or services that violates our terms of service or otherwise for objectionable or illegal ends. preventing these actions may require us to make substantial investments in people and technology and these investments may not be successful, adversely affecting our business and financial results. we may have excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. these demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as bing, exchange online, azure, microsoft account services, office 365, onedrive, sharepoint online, skype, xbox live, outlook.com, and windows stores. we are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users. maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. it requires that we maintain an internet connectivity infrastructure that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data or insufficient internet connectivity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. 22 part i item 1a government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. as a leading global software and device maker, government agencies closely scrutinize us under u.s. and foreign competition laws. an increasing number of governments are actively enforc ing competition laws and regulations and this includes increased scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the european union ( eu ), the u.s., and china. some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive condu ct. u.s. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business. the european commission ( the commission ) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. flagship product releases such as windows 10 can receive significant scrutiny under competition laws. for example, in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of our windows operating system that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments we offered to address the commission's concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address commission concerns relating to interoperability. the web browsing commitments expired in 2014. the remaining obligations may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products. our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our oem partners offer a large variety of devices on our platforms. as a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our oem partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase. certain foreign governments, particularly in china and other countries in asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may result in fines, or hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. new competition law actions could be initiated, potentially using previous actions as precedent. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. we are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees, or other voluntary actions we have taken. if we fail to comply with these commitments, we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions. our ability to realize anticipated windows 10 post-sale monetization opportunities may be limited. 23 part i item 1a our global operations subje ct us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations ( anti-corruption laws ) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vend ors, or agents. from time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the u.s. and elsewhere and reports from employees and others about our business activities outside the u.s. and our compliance with anti-corruption laws. specifically, we have been cooperating with authorities in the u.s. in connection with reports concerning our compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act in various countries. most countries in which we operate also have competition laws that prohibit competitors from colludi ng or otherwise attempting to reduce competition between themselves. while we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments and collusive activity , our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. our failure to comply with anti-corruption laws or competition laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employe es, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. operations outside the u.s. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies, and measures, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investm ent. we may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of u.s. trade sanctions on countries such as iran, north korea, cuba, sudan, and syria. other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, and online content. for example, regulators may take the position that our offerings such as skype are covered by existing laws regulating telecommunications services and new laws may define more of our services as regulated telecommunications services. data protection authorities may assert that our collection, use, and management of customer data is inconsistent with their laws and regulations. legislative or regulatory action relating cybersecurity requirements may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services. legislative or regulatory action could also emerge in the area of ai, increasing costs or restricting opportunity. applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. additionally, these laws and governments' approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve. compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. we strive to empower all people and organizations to achieve more, and accessibility of our products is an important aspect of this goal. there is increasing pressure from advocacy groups, regulators, competitors, and customers to make technology more accessible. if our products do not meet customer expectations or emerging global accessibility requirements, we could lose sales opportunities or face regulatory actions laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, fines against us, or reputational damage. the growth of our internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. for example, the eu and the u.s. formally entered into a new framework in july 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from eu member states to the u.s. this framework, called the privacy shield, is intended to address shortcomings identified by the european court of justice in a predecessor mechanism. the privacy shield and other mechanisms are currently subject to challenges in european courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers across the atlantic. the privacy shield and other potential rules on the flow of data across borders could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services in some markets. in may 2018, a new eu law governing data practices and privacy, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), became effective. the law, which applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the eu or related to products and services offered in the eu, imposes a range of new compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data. engineering efforts to build new capabilities to facilitate compliance with the law have entailed substantial expense and the diversion of engineering resources from other projects and may continue to do so. we might experience reduced demand for our offerings if we are unable to engineer products that meet our legal duties or help our customers meet their obligations under the gdpr or other data regulations, or if the changes we implement to comply with the gdpr make our offerings less attractive. the gdpr imposes significant new obligations and compliance with these obligations depends in part on how particular regulators apply and interpret them. if we fail to comply with the gdpr, or if regulators assert we have failed to comply with the gdpr, it may lead to regulatory enforcement actions, which can result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue, private lawsuits, or reputational damage. 24 part i item 1a the company's investment in gaining insights from data is becoming central to the value of the services we deliver to customers, to our opera tional efficiency and key opportunities in monetization, customer perceptions of quality, and operational efficiency. our ability to use data in this way may be constrained by regulatory developments that impede realizing the expected return from this inve stment. ongoing legal reviews by regulators may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements , including data sovereignty and localization requirements, affecting the location and movement of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data. compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding personal data may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. compliance with data regulations might limit our ability to innovate or offer certain features and functionality in som e jurisdictions where we operate. failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity , as well as negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. maintaining our brand and reputation are important to our ability to recruit and retain employees. we are also limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. changes to u.s. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development efforts. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain highly skilled workers and key leaders, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. how employment-related laws are interpreted and applied to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. these claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases such as windows 10, significant business transactions, warranty or product claims, and employment practices. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact in our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. for example, compliance with the 2017 united states tax cut and jobs act ( tcja ) may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the company, the use of estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. as regulations and guidance evolve with respect to tcja, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our financial position. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation in the jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect in our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods in which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the u.s. a change in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, changes in u.s. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, including in the u.s., and changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions may materially adversely impact our tax expense and cash flows. 25 part i item 1a we may experience quality or supply problems. our hardware products such as xbox consoles, surface devices, and other devices we design, manufacture, and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and r eputational harm as a result of recalls, safety alerts, or product liability claims if we fail to prevent, detect, or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. our software products also may experience quality or reliability problems. the highly-sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. we acquire some device and datacenter components from sole suppliers. our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us. if a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint, industry shortages, legal or regulatory changes, or other reasons, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales or inadequate datacenter capacity. component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. xbox consoles, surface devices, datacenter servers, and other hardware are assembled in asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other hardware and software products we may offer. our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. our customers are located in over 200 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. the global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. our results of operations may be affected by global, regional, and local economic developments, monetary policy, inflation, and recession, as well as political and military disputes. in addition, our international growth strategy includes certain markets, the developing nature of which presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. emerging nationalist trends in specific countries may significantly alter the trade environment. changes to trade policy or agreements as a result of populism, protectionism, or economic nationalism may result in higher tariffs, local sourcing initiatives, or other developments that make it more difficult to sell our products in foreign countries. disruptions of these kinds in developed or emerging markets could negatively impact demand for our products and services or increase operating costs. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue. catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyberattack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are seismically active regions. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. 26 part i item 1a abrupt political c hange, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions b y our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers. geopolitical change may result in changing regulatory requirements that could impact our operating strategies, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. geopolit ical instability may lead to sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some markets or with some public-sector customers. any of these changes may negatively impact our revenues. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy or the it industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy or other natural resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower it spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. substantial revenue comes from our u.s. government contracts. an extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government it spending on our products and services and adversely affect our revenue. our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network. oems building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, oem, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by market downturns or events that affect global financial markets. a significant part of our investment portfolio comprises u.s. government securities. if global financial markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. changes in our sales organization may impact revenues. in july 2017, we announced plans to reorganize our global sales organization to help enable customers' digital transformation, add greater technical ability to our sales force, and create pooled resources that can be used across countries and industries. the reorganization is the most significant change in our global sales organization in our history, involving employees changing roles, adding additional talent, realigning teams, and onboarding new partners. successfully executing these changes will be a significant factor in enabling future revenue growth. as we continue to navigate through this transition, sales, profitability, and cash flow could be adversely impacted. the development of the internet of things presents security, privacy, and execution risks. to support the growth of the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge, we are developing products, services, and technologies to power the iot, a network of distributed and interconnected devices employing sensors, data, and computing capabilities including ai. the iot's great potential also carries substantial risks. iot products and services may contain defects in design, manufacture, or operation, that make them insecure or ineffective for their intended purposes. an iot solution has multiple layers of hardware, sensors, processors, software, and firmware, several of which we may not develop or control. each layer, including the weakest layer, can impact the security of the whole system. many iot devices have limited interfaces and ability to be updated or patched. iot solutions may collect large amounts of data, and our handling of iot data may not satisfy customers or regulatory requirements. iot scenarios may increasingly affect personal health and safety. if iot solutions that include our technologies do not work as intended, violate the law, or harm individuals or businesses, we may be subject to legal claims or enforcement actions. these risks, if realized, may increase our costs, damage our reputation or brands, or negatively impact our revenues or margins. 27 part i item 1a issues in the use of artificial intelligence in our offerings may result in reputational harm or liability . we are building ai into many of o ur offerings and we expect this element of our business to grow. we envision a future in which ai operating in our devices, applications, and the cloud helps our customers be more productive in their work and personal lives. as with many disruptive innovat ions, ai presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. ai algorithms may be flawed. datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information. inappropriate or controversial data practices by microsoft or others could impair the acceptance of ai solutions. these deficiencies could undermine the decisions, predictions, or analysis ai applications produce, subjecting us to competitive harm, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. some ai scenarios present ethical issues. if we enable or offer ai solutions that are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social issues, we may experience brand or reputational harm. if our reputation or our brands are damaged, our business and operating results may be harmed . our reputation and brands are globally recognized and are important to our business. our reputation and brands affect our ability to attract and retain consumer, business, and public-sector customers. there are numerous ways our reputation or brands could be damaged. these include product safety or quality issues, or our environmental impact, supply chain practices, or human rights record. we may experience backlash from customers, government entities, advocacy groups, employees, and other stakeholders that disagree with our product offering decisions or public policy positions. damage to our reputation or our brands may occur from, among other things: the introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like. public scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, data practices, or content. data security breaches, compliance failures, or actions of partners or individual employees. the proliferation of social media may increase the likelihood, speed, and magnitude of negative brand events. if our brands or reputation are damaged, it could negatively impact our revenues or margins, or ability to attract the most highly qualified employees. 28 part i item 1b, 2, 3, 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitat ive disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, and equity prices. we use derivatives instruments to manage these risks, however, they may still impact our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. interest rate securities held in our fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest rate risks based on their maturities. we manage the average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global fixed-income indices. credit our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities. we manage credit exposures relative to broad-based indices and to facilitate portfolio diversification. equity securities held in our equity and other investments portfolio are subject to market price risk. sensitivity analysis historically, we used a value-at-risk ( var ) model to estimate and quantify our market risks. this included presenting one-day var as well as average, high, and low var by risk category throughout the reporting period. given the changes in size and allocation of our portfolio of financial assets, we believe sensitivity analysis is more informative in representing the potential impact to the portfolio as a result of market movements. therefore, we have presented a sensitivity analysis for each risk category below. sensitivity analysis is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value, including determinations of other-than-temporary losses in fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. the following table sets forth the potential loss in future earnings or fair values, including associated derivatives, resulting from hypothetical changes in relevant market rates or prices: (in millions) risk categories hypothetical change june 30, 2018 june 30, 2017 impact foreign currency - revenue 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates $ (2,187 ) $ (1,785 ) earnings foreign currency - investments 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates (70 ) (92 ) fair value interest rate 100 basis point increase in u.s. treasury interest rates (2,705 ) (2,394 ) fair value credit 100 basis point increase in credit spreads (232 ) (167 ) fair value equity 10% decrease in equity market prices (140 ) (323 ) fair value 50 part ii item 8risk factors 17 ris k factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. competition in the technology sector our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. competition among platform-based ecosystems an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. we face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, wearables, and other endpoint devices. competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform, including applications and content sold through their integrated marketplaces. they may also be able to claim security and performance benefits from their vertically integrated offer. we also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services. to the extent we shift a portion of our business to a vertically integrated model we increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. we derive substantial revenue from licenses of windows operating systems on personal computers. we face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. these devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our pc operating system platforms. competing with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease our pc operating system margins. popular products or services offered on competing platforms could increase their competitive strength. in addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our original equipment manufacturer ( oem ) partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases. the variety and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions. users may incur costs to move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms. to compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our platform and ensure that these applications have high quality, security, customer appeal, and value. efforts to compete with competitors' content and application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. 17 part i item 1a business model competition companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. even as we transition more of our business to infrastructure-, platform-, and software-as-a-service business model, the license-based proprietary software model generates a substantial portion of our software revenue. we bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model. other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. some companies compete with us by modifying and then distributing open source software at little or no cost to end-users, and earning revenue on advertising or integrated products and services. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the open source software. some open source software mimics the features and functionality of our products. the competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. this may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. our increasing focus on cloud-based services presents execution and competitive risks. a growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. our strategic vision is to compete and grow by building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with artificial intelligence ( ai ). at the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user's choice of which cloud-based services to use. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. the windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. we are undertaking cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. our intelligent cloud and intelligent edge worldview is connected with the growth of the internet of things ( iot ). our success in the iot will depend on the level of adoption of our offerings such as microsoft azure, azure stack, azure iot edge, and azure sphere. we may not establish market share sufficient to achieve scale necessary to achieve our business objectives. besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including: continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share. maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including pcs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices, as well as sensors and other endpoints. continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers. ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors. it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. if we are not effective in executing organizational and technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. this may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. 18 part i item 1a we make significant investments in products and services that may not achieve expected returns. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the windows operating system, microsoft 365, office, bing, microsoft sql server, windows server, azure, office 365, xbox live, mixer, linkedin, and other p roducts and services. we also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including pcs, tablets, gaming devices, and hololens. investments in new technology are speculative. commerc ial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their p urchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. new products and services may no t be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. we may not get engagement in certain features, like microsoft edge and bing, that drive post- sale monetization opportunities. our data handling practices across our products and services will continue to be under scrutiny and perceptions of mismanagement, driven by regulatory activity or negative public reaction to our practices or prod uct experiences, which could negatively impact product and feature adoption, product design , and product quality. developing new technologies is complex. it can require long development and testing periods. significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. in december 2016, we completed our acquisition of linkedin corporation ( linkedin ) for $27.0 billion, and in october 2018, we completed our acquisition of github, inc. for $7.5 billion. these acquisitions and other transactions and arrangements involve significant challenges and risks, including that they do not advance our business strategy, that we get an unsatisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating and retaining new employees, business systems, and technology, or that they distract management from our other businesses. if an arrangement fails to adequately anticipate changing circumstances and interests of a party, it may result in early termination or renegotiation of the arrangement. the success of these transactions and arrangements will depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones. it may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions and arrangements such as increased revenue or enhanced efficiencies, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. these events could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. we acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. we test goodwill for impairment at least annually. factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. we have in the past recorded, and may in the future be required to record a significant charge on our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. our acquisition of linkedin resulted in a significant increase in our goodwill and intangible asset balances. 19 part i item 1a cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. security of our information technology threats to it security can take a variety of forms. individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our it. these actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities in hardware, software, or other infrastructure in order to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users' or customers' data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access to confidential data. for example, system administrators may fail to timely remove employee account access when no longer appropriate. employees or third parties may intentionally compromise our or our users' security or systems, or reveal confidential information. cyberthreats are constantly evolving, increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. we may have no current capability to detect certain vulnerabilities, which may allow them to persist in the environment over long periods of time. cyberthreats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers. breaches of our facilities, network, or data security could disrupt the security of our systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. in addition, our internal it environment continues to evolve. often, we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. we embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. security of our products, services, devices, and customers' data the security of our products and services is important in our customers' decisions to purchase or use our products or services. security threats are a significant challenge to companies like us whose business is providing technology products and services to others. threats to our own it infrastructure can also affect our customers. customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. adversaries tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. adversaries that acquire user account information at other companies can use that information to compromise our users' accounts where accounts share the same attributes like passwords. inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access. we are also increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. there may be vulnerabilities in open source software that may make our products susceptible to cyberattacks. to defend against security threats to our internal it systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers' systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so. 20 part i item 1a the cost of these steps could reduc e our operating margins. if we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services, data corruption issues, or reduced performance could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future pu rchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. customers ma y fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install or enable security patches. any of these could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. actual or perceived vulnerabilitie may lead to claims against us. our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, but there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. at times, to achieve commercial objectives, we may enter into agreements with larger liability exposure to customers. as illustrated by the spectre and meltdown threats, our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem of third parties. if there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. disclosure and misuse of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. as we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers and users. the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and third parties on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure or misuse of customer or user data we or our vendors store and manage. in addition, third parties who have limited access to our customer or user data may use this data in unauthorized ways. improper disclosure or misuse could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers or users, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer or user data in response to valid legal orders. in the u.s. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. despite our efforts to protect customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities. additional security measures we may take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses or hinder growth of our products and services. we may not be able to protect information in our products and services from use by others . linkedin and other microsoft products and services contain valuable information and content protected by contractual restrictions or technical measures. in certain cases, we have made commitments to our members and users to limit access to or use of this information. changes in the law or interpretations of the law may weaken our ability to prevent third parties from scraping or gathering information or content through use of bots or other measures and using it for their own benefit, thus diminishing the value of our products and services. abuse of our platforms may harm our reputation or user engagement. advertising, professional, and social platform abuses for linkedin, microsoft advertising, msn, xbox live, and other products and services that provide content or host ads that come from or can be influenced by third parties, our reputation or user engagement may be negatively affected by activity that is hostile or inappropriate. this activity may come from users impersonating other people or organizations, use of our products or services to spread terrorist or violent extremist content or to disseminate information that may be viewed as misleading or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users, or the use of our products or services that violates our terms of service or otherwise for objectionable or illegal ends. preventing or responding to these actions may require us to make substantial investments in people and technology and these investments may not be successful, adversely affecting our business and consolidated financial statements. 21 part i item 1a harmful content online our hosted consumer services as well as our enterprise services may be used by third parties to disseminate harmful or illegal content in violation of our terms or applicable law. we may not proactively discover such content due to scale and the limitations of existing technologies, and when discovered by users, such content may negatively affect our reputation, our brands, and user engagement. regulations and other initiatives to make platforms responsible for preventing or eliminating harmful content online are gaining momentum and we expect this to continue. we may be subject to enhanced regulatory oversight, substantial liability, or reputational damage if we fail to comply with content moderation regulations, adversely affecting our business and consolidated financial statements. the development of the iot presents security, privacy, and execution risks. to support the growth of the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge, we are developing products, services, and technologies to power the iot, a network of distributed and interconnected devices employing sensors, data, and computing capabilities including ai. the iot's great potential also carries substantial risks. iot products and services may contain defects in design, manufacture, or operation, that make them insecure or ineffective for their intended purposes. an iot solution has multiple layers of hardware, sensors, processors, software, and firmware, several of which we may not develop or control. each layer, including the weakest layer, can impact the security of the whole system. many iot devices have limited interfaces and ability to be updated or patched. iot solutions may collect large amounts of data, and our handling of iot data may not satisfy customers or regulatory requirements. iot scenarios may increasingly affect personal health and safety. if iot solutions that include our technologies do not work as intended, violate the law, or harm individuals or businesses, we may be subject to legal claims or enforcement actions. these risks, if realized, may increase our costs, damage our reputation or brands, or negatively impact our revenues or margins. issues in the use of ai in our offerings may result in reputational harm or liability . we are building ai into many of our offerings and we expect this element of our business to grow. we envision a future in which ai operating in our devices, applications, and the cloud helps our customers be more productive in their work and personal lives. as with many disruptive innovations, ai presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. ai algorithms may be flawed. datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information. inappropriate or controversial data practices by microsoft or others could impair the acceptance of ai solutions. these deficiencies could undermine the decisions, predictions, or analysis ai applications produce, subjecting us to competitive harm, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. some ai scenarios present ethical issues. if we enable or offer ai solutions that are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social issues, we may experience brand or reputational harm. we may have excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. these demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as bing, azure, microsoft account services, office 365, microsoft teams, dynamics 365, onedrive, sharepoint online, skype, xbox live, and outlook.com. we are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users. maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. it requires that we maintain an internet connectivity infrastructure that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data or insufficient internet connectivity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may adversely impact our consolidated financial statements. we may experience quality or supply problems. our hardware products such as xbox consoles, surface devices, and other devices we design, manufacture, and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm as a result of recalls, safety alerts, or product liability claims if we fail to prevent, detect, or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. 22 part i item 1a our software products and services also may experience quality or reliability problems. the highly sophis ticated software we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. our customers increasingly rely on us for critical functions, potentially magnifying the impact of quality or reliability issues. any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. although our license agreements typically contai n provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. we acquire some device and datacenter components from sole suppliers. our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us. if a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint, industry shortages, legal or regulatory changes, or other reasons, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales or inadequate datacenter capacity. component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. xbox consoles, surface devices, datacenter servers, and other hardware are assembled in asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other hardware and software products we may offer. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that code. it may then become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. legal changes, our evolving business model, piracy, and other factors may decrease the value of our intellectual property. protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property on a global basis is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly countries in which the legal system provides less protection for intellectual property rights. our revenue in these markets may grow more slowly than the underlying device market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we educate users about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. we expend significant resources to patent the intellectual property we create with the expectation that we will generate revenues by incorporating that intellectual property in our products or services or, in some instances, by licensing our patents to others in return for a royalty. changes in the law may continue to weaken our ability to prevent the use of patented technology or collect revenue for licensing our patents. these include legislative changes and regulatory actions that make it more difficult to obtain injunctions, and the increasing use of legal process to challenge issued patents. similarly, licensees of our patents may fail to satisfy their obligations to pay us royalties, or may contest the scope and extent of their obligations. the royalties we can obtain to monetize our intellectual property may decline because of the evolution of technology, selling price changes in products using licensed patents, or the difficulty of discovering infringements. finally, our increasing engagement with open source software will also cause us to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations and may negatively impact revenue. 23 part i item 1a third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow bec ause of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as microsoft surface. to resolve thes e claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. these outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. in ome countries, such as germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. we have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. these claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases such as windows 10, significant business transactions, warranty or product claims, and employment practices. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. as a leading global software and device maker, government agencies closely scrutinize us under u.s. and foreign competition laws. governments are actively enforcing competition laws and regulations, and this includes scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the european union ( eu ), the u.s., and china. some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. u.s. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business. the european commission ( the commission ) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. flagship product releases such as windows 10 can receive significant scrutiny under competition laws. for example, in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of our windows operating system that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments we offered to address the commission's concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address commission concerns relating to interoperability. the web browsing commitments expired in 2014. the remaining obligations may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products. our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our oem partners offer a large variety of devices for our platforms. as a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our oem partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase. certain foreign governments, particularly in china and other countries in asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may result in fines, or hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. new competition law actions could be initiated, potentially using previous actions as precedent. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. 24 part i item 1a we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. we are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees, or other voluntary actions we have taken. if we fail to comply with these commitments, we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions. our ability to realize anticipated windows 10 post-sale monetization opportunities may be limited. our global operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations ( anti-corruption laws ) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents, and the accounting provisions of the fcpa require us to maintain accurate books and records and adequate internal controls. from time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the u.s. and elsewhere which may be based on reports from employees and others about our business activities outside the u.s. and our compliance with anti-corruption laws. periodically, we receive such reports directly and investigate them. on july 22, 2019, our hungarian subsidiary entered into a non-prosecution agreement ( npa ) with the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) and we agreed to the terms of a cease and desist order with the securities and exchange commission. these agreements required us to pay $25.3 million in monetary penalties, disgorgement, and interest pertaining to activities at microsoft's subsidiary in hungary. the npa, which has a three-year term, also contains certain ongoing compliance requirements, including the obligations to disclose to the doj issues that may implicate the fcpa and to cooperate in any inquiries. most countries in which we operate also have competition laws that prohibit competitors from colluding or otherwise attempting to reduce competition between themselves. while we devote substantial resources to our u.s. and international compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments and collusive activity, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. our failure to comply with anti-corruption laws or competition laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. operations outside the u.s. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. we may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of u.s. trade sanctions on restricted entities or countries such as iran, north korea, cuba, sudan, and syria. other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, and online content. for example, some regulators are taking the position that our offerings such as skype are covered by existing laws regulating telecommunications services, and some new laws are defining more of our services as regulated telecommunications services. this trend may continue and will result in these offerings being subjected to additional data protection, security, and law enforcement surveillance obligations. data protection authorities may assert that our collection, use, and management of customer data is inconsistent with their laws and regulations. legislative or regulatory action relating to cybersecurity requirements may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services. legislative or regulatory action could also emerge in the area of ai and content moderation, increasing costs or restricting opportunity. applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. additionally, these laws and governments' approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve. compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. we strive to empower all people and organizations to achieve more, and accessibility of our products is an important aspect of this goal. there is increasing pressure from advocacy groups, regulators, competitors, customers, and other stakeholders to make technology more accessible. if our products do not meet customer expectations or emerging global accessibility requirements, we could lose sales opportunities or face regulatory actions 25 part i item 1a laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, fines against us , or reputational damage . the growth of our internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve . for example, the eu and the u.s. formally entered into a new framework in july 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from eu member states to the u.s. this framework, called the privacy shield, is intended to address shortcomings identified by the european court of justice in a predecessor mechanism. the privacy shield and other mechanisms are currently subject to challenges in european courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers across the atlant ic. the privacy shield and other potential rules on the flow of data across borders could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services in some markets. in may 2018, a new eu law governing data practices and privacy , the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), bec a me effective. the law , which applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the eu or related to products and services offered in the eu, imposes a range of new compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data. engineering efforts to build new capabilities to facilitate compliance with the law have entailed substantial expense and the diversion of engineering resources from other projects and may continue to do so. we might experien ce reduced demand for our offerings if we are unable to engineer products that meet our legal duties or help our customers meet their obligations under the gdpr or other data regulations, or if the changes we implement to comply with the gdpr make our offe rings less attractive. the gdpr imposes significant new obligations and compliance with these obligations depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply them. if we fail to comply with the gdpr, or if regulators assert we have failed to c omply with the gdpr, it may lead to regulatory enforcement actions, which can result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue, private lawsuits , or reputational damage . in the u.s., california has adopted and several states are considering ad opting laws and regulations imposing obligations regarding the handling of personal data. the company's investment in gaining insights from data is becoming central to the value of the services we deliver to customers, to our operational efficiency and key opportunities in monetization, customer perceptions of quality, and operational efficiency. our ability to use data in this way may be constrained by regulatory developments that impede realizing the expected return from this investment. ongoing legal reviews by regulators may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements, including data sovereignty and localization requirements, affecting the location and movement of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data. compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding personal data may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. compliance with data regulations might limit our ability to innovate or offer certain features and functionality in some jurisdictions where we operate. failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity, as well as negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. for example, compliance with the 2017 united states tax cuts and jobs act ( tcja ) may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the company, the use of estimates in our consolidated financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. as regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the tcja, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our consolidated financial statements. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. although we believe that our provision for income taxes and our tax estimates are reasonable, tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken. in addition, economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. we are currently under internal revenue service audit for prior tax years, with the primary unresolved issues relating to transfer pricing. the final resolution of those audits, and other audits or litigation, may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods in which that determination is made. 26 part i item 1a we earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the u.s . a change in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, changes in u.s. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, including in the u.s., and changes in taxing juris dictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions may materially adversely impact our consolidated financial statements . if our reputation or our brands are damaged, our business and operating results may be harmed . our reputation and brands are globally recognized and are important to our business. our reputation and brands affect our ability to attract and retain consumer, business, and public-sector customers. there are numerous ways our reputation or brands could be damaged. these include product safety or quality issues, or our environmental impact and sustainability, supply chain practices, or human rights record. we may experience backlash from customers, government entities, advocacy groups, employees, and other stakeholders that disagree with our product offering decisions or public policy positions. damage to our reputation or our brands may occur from, among other things: the introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like. public scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, data practices, or content. data security breaches, compliance failures, or actions of partners or individual employees. the proliferation of social media may increase the likelihood, speed, and magnitude of negative brand events. if our brands or reputation are damaged, it could negatively impact our revenues or margins, or ability to attract the most highly qualified employees. our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. our customers are located throughout the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. the global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. our results of operations may be affected by global, regional, and local economic developments, monetary policy, inflation, and recession, as well as political and military disputes. in addition, our international growth strategy includes certain markets, the developing nature of which presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. emerging nationalist trends in specific countries may significantly alter the trade environment. changes to trade policy or agreements as a result of populism, protectionism, or economic nationalism may result in higher tariffs, local sourcing initiatives, or other developments that make it more difficult to sell our products in foreign countries. disruptions of these kinds in developed or emerging markets could negatively impact demand for our products and services or increase operating costs. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our results of operations . adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower it spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. substantial revenue comes from our u.s. government contracts. an extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government it spending on our products and services and adversely affect our revenue. our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network. oems building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, oem, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. 27 part i item 1a we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, t ypes, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by market downturns or events that affect global financial markets. a significant part of our investment portfolio c omprises u.s. government securities. if global financial markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements . catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyberattack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are seismically active regions. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems, or the infrastructure or systems they rely on, such as power grids, could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our consolidated financial statements. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers. geopolitical change may result in changing regulatory requirements that could impact our operating strategies, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. geopolitical instability may lead to sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some markets or with some public-sector customers. any of these changes may negatively impact our revenues. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy or the it industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy or other natural resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees representing diverse backgrounds, experiences, and skill sets. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. maintaining our brand and reputation, as well as a diverse and inclusive work environment that enables all our employees to thrive, are important to our ability to recruit and retain employees. we are also limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. changes to u.s. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development efforts. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain highly skilled workers and key leaders, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. how employment-related laws are interpreted and applied to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. 28 part i item 1b, 2, 3, 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitat ive disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, and equity prices. we use derivatives instruments to manage these risks, however, they may still impact our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions. principal currencies hedged include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. interest rate securities held in our fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest rate risks based on their maturities. we manage the average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global fixed-income indices. credit our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities. we manage credit exposures relative to broad-based indices and to facilitate portfolio diversification. equity securities held in our equity investments portfolio are subject to price risk. sensitivity analysis the following table sets forth the potential loss in future earnings or fair values, including associated derivatives, resulting from hypothetical changes in relevant market rates or prices: (in millions) risk categories hypothetical change june 30, 2019 impact foreign currency - revenue 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates $ (3,402 ) earnings foreign currency - investments 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates (120 ) fair value interest rate 100 basis point increase in u.s. treasury interest rates (2,909 ) fair value credit 100 basis point increase in credit spreads (224 ) fair value equity 10% decrease in equity market prices (244 ) earnings 50 part ii item 8risk factors 19 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. competition in the technology sector our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. competition among platform-based ecosystems an important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. a well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. we face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms. a competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, wearables, and other endpoint devices. competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform, including applications and content sold through their integrated marketplaces. they may also be able to claim security and performance benefits from their vertically integrated offer. we also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services. to the extent we shift a portion of our business to a vertically integrated model we increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. we derive substantial revenue from licenses of windows operating systems on pcs. we face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. these devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our pc operating system platforms. competing with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease our pc operating system margins. popular products or services offered on competing platforms could increase their competitive strength. in addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our original equipment manufacturer ( oem ) partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases. the variety and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions. users may incur costs to move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms. to compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our platform and ensure that these applications have high quality, security, customer appeal, and value. efforts to compete with competitors' content and application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. competitors' rules governing their content and applications marketplaces may restrict our ability to distribute products and services through them in accordance with our technical and business model objectives. 19 part i item 1a business model competition companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. even as we transition more of our business to infrastructure-, platform-, and software-as-a-service business model, the license-based proprietary software model generates a substantial portion of our software revenue. we bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model. other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. some companies compete with us by modifying and then distributing open source software at little or no cost to end users, and earning revenue on advertising or integrated products and services. these firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the open source software. some open source software mimics the features and functionality of our products. the competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. this may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. our increasing focus on cloud-based services presents execution and competitive risks. a growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. our strategic vision is to compete and grow by building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with artificial intelligence ( ai ). at the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user's choice of which cloud-based services to use. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. the windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. we are undertaking cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. our intelligent cloud and intelligent edge worldview is connected with the growth of the internet of things ( iot ). our success in the iot will depend on the level of adoption of our offerings such as azure, azure stack, azure iot edge, and azure sphere. we may not establish market share sufficient to achieve scale necessary to achieve our business objectives. besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. these costs will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including: continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share. maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including pcs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices, as well as sensors and other endpoints. continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers. ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data as well as help them meet their own compliance needs. making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors. it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. if we are not effective in executing organizational and technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. this may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. 20 part i item 1a we make significant investments in products and services that may not achieve expected returns. we will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the windows operating system, microsoft 365, office, bing, sql server, windows server, azure, office 365, xbox live, linkedin, and other products and services. we also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including pcs, tablets, gaming devices, and hololens. investments in new technology are speculative. commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. if customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. we may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. we may not get engagement in certain features, like edge and bing, that drive post-sale monetization opportunities. our data handling practices across our products and services will continue to be under scrutiny and perceptions of mismanagement, driven by regulatory activity or negative public reaction to our practices or product experiences, which could negatively impact product and feature adoption, product design, and product quality. developing new technologies is complex. it can require long development and testing periods. significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. we expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. for example, in october 2018, we completed our acquisition of github, inc. ( github ) for $7.5 billion. these acquisitions and other transactions and arrangements involve significant challenges and risks, including that they do not advance our business strategy, that we get an unsatisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating and retaining new employees, business systems, and technology, or that they distract management from our other businesses. if an arrangement fails to adequately anticipate changing circumstances and interests of a party, it may result in early termination or renegotiation of the arrangement. the success of these transactions and arrangements will depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones. it may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions and arrangements such as increased revenue or enhanced efficiencies, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. these events could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. we acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. we test goodwill for impairment at least annually. factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. we have in the past recorded, and may in the future be required to record a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. 21 part i item 1a cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. security of our information technology threats to it security can take a variety of forms. individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our it. these actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities in hardware, software, or other infrastructure in order to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users' or customers' data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access to confidential data. for example, system administrators may fail to timely remove employee account access when no longer appropriate. employees or third parties may intentionally compromise our or our users' security or systems, or reveal confidential information. cyberthreats are constantly evolving, increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. we may have no current capability to detect certain vulnerabilities, which may allow them to persist in the environment over long periods of time. cyberthreats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers. breaches of our facilities, network, or data security could disrupt the security of our systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improve technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. in addition, our internal it environment continues to evolve. often, we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. we embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. security of our products, services, devices, and customers' data the security of our products and services is important in our customers' decisions to purchase or use our products or services. security threats are a significant challenge to companies like us whose business is providing technology products and services to others. threats to our own it infrastructure can also affect our customers. customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. adversaries tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. adversaries that acquire user account information at other companies can use that information to compromise our users' accounts where accounts share the same attributes as passwords. inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access. user activity may also result in ransomware or other malicious software impacting a customer's use of our products or services. we are also increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. there may be vulnerabilities in open source software that may make our products susceptible to cyberattacks. to defend against security threats to our internal it systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers' systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so. customers in certain industries such as financial services, health care, and government may have enhanced or specialized requirements to which we must engineer our product and services. 22 part i item 1a the cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. if we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services, data corruption issues, or reduced performance could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. customers, and third parties granted access to their systems, may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install or enable security patches, or may otherwise fail to adopt adequate security practices. any of these could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, but there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. at times, to achieve commercial objectives, we may enter into agreements with larger liability exposure to customers. our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem of third parties. if there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. disclosure and misuse of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. as we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers and users. the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and third parties on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure or misuse of customer or user data we or our vendors store and manage. in addition, third parties who have limited access to our customer or user data may use this data in unauthorized ways. improper disclosure or misuse could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers or users, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. our software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer or user data in response to valid legal orders. in the u.s. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. despite our efforts to protect customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities. additional security measures we may take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses or hinder growth of our products and services. we may not be able to protect information in our products and services from use by others . linkedin and other microsoft products and services contain valuable information and content protected by contractual restrictions or technical measures. in certain cases, we have made commitments to our members and users to limit access to or use of this information. changes in the law or interpretations of the law may weaken our ability to prevent third parties from scraping or gathering information or content through use of bots or other measures and using it for their own benefit, thus diminishing the value of our products and services. abuse of our platforms may harm our reputation or user engagement. advertising, professional, and social platform abuses for platform products and services that provide content or host ads that come from or can be influenced by third parties, including github, linkedin, microsoft advertising, msn, and xbox live, our reputation or user engagement may be negatively affected by activity that is hostile or inappropriate. this activity may come from users impersonating other people or organizations, use of our products or services to spread terrorist or violent extremist content or to disseminate information that may be viewed as misleading or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users, or the use of our products or services that violates our terms of service or otherwise for objectionable or illegal ends. preventing or responding to these actions may require us to make substantial investments in people and technology and these investments may not be successful, adversely affecting our business and consolidated financial statements. 23 part i item 1a digital safety and service misuse our hosted consumer services as well as our enterprise services may be used by third parties to disseminate harmful or illegal content in violation of our terms or applicable law. we may not proactively discover such content due to scale and the limitations of existing technologies, and when discovered by users, such content may negatively affect our reputation, our brands, and user engagement. regulations and other initiatives to make platforms responsible for preventing or eliminating harmful content online are gaining momentum and we expect this to continue. we may be subject to enhanced regulatory oversight, civil or criminal liability, or reputational damage if we fail to comply with content moderation regulations, adversely affecting our business and consolidated financial statements. the development of the iot presents security, privacy, and execution risks. to support the growth of the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge, we are developing products, services, and technologies to power the iot, a network of distributed and interconnected devices employing sensors, data, and computing capabilities including ai. the iot's great potential also carries substantial risks. iot products and services may contain defects in design, manufacture, or operation, that make them insecure or ineffective for their intended purposes. an iot solution has multiple layers of hardware, sensors, processors, software, and firmware, several of which we may not develop or control. each layer, including the weakest layer, can impact the security of the whole system. many iot devices have limited interfaces and ability to be updated or patched. iot solutions may collect large amounts of data, and our handling of iot data may not satisfy customers or regulatory requirements. iot scenarios may increasingly affect personal health and safety. if iot solutions that include our technologies do not work as intended, violate the law, or harm individuals or businesses, we may be subject to legal claims or enforcement actions. these risks, if realized, may increase our costs, damage our reputation or brands, or negatively impact our revenues or margins. issues in the use of ai in our offerings may result in reputational harm or liability . we are building ai into many of our offerings and we expect this element of our business to grow. we envision a future in which ai operating in our devices, applications, and the cloud helps our customers be more productive in their work and personal lives. as with many disruptive innovations, ai presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. ai algorithms may be flawed. datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information. inappropriate or controversial data practices by microsoft or others could impair the acceptance of ai solutions. these deficiencies could undermine the decisions, predictions, or analysis ai applications produce, subjecting us to competitive harm, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. some ai scenarios present ethical issues. if we enable or offer ai solutions that are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social issues, we may experience brand or reputational harm. we may have excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. we spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. these demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as bing, azure, microsoft account services, office 365, microsoft teams, dynamics 365, onedrive, sharepoint online, skype, xbox live, and outlook.com. we are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users. maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex, and requires development of principles for datacenter builds in geographies with higher safety risks. it requires that we maintain an internet connectivity infrastructure and storage and compute capacity that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, insufficient internet connectivity, or inadequate storage and compute capacity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may adversely impact our consolidated financial statements. we may experience quality or supply problems. our hardware products such as xbox consoles, surface devices, and other devices we design, manufacture, and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. we could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm as a result of recalls, safety alerts, or product liability claims if we fail to prevent, detect, or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. 24 part i item 1a our software products and services also may experience quality or reliability problems. the highly sophisticated software we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. our customers increasingly rely on us for critical functions, potentially magnifying the impact of quality or reliability issues. any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. we acquire some device and datacenter components from sole suppliers. our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us. if a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint, industry shortages, legal or regulatory changes, or other reasons, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales or inadequate datacenter capacity. component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. xbox consoles, surface devices, datacenter servers, and other hardware are assembled in asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. these same risks would apply to any other hardware and software products we may offer. we may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure. source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. if our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that code. it may then become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described elsewhere in these risk factors. legal changes, our evolving business model, piracy, and other factors may decrease the value of our intellectual property. protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property on a global basis is difficult. while piracy adversely affects u.s. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the u.s. is more significant, particularly countries in which the legal system provides less protection for intellectual property rights. our revenue in these markets may grow more slowly than the underlying device market. similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. throughout the world, we educate users about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. we expend significant resources to patent the intellectual property we create with the expectation that we will generate revenues by incorporating that intellectual property in our products or services or, in some instances, by licensing our patents to others in return for a royalty. changes in the law may continue to weaken our ability to prevent the use of patented technology or collect revenue for licensing our patents. these include legislative changes and regulatory actions that make it more difficult to obtain injunctions, and the increasing use of legal process to challenge issued patents. similarly, licensees of our patents may fail to satisfy their obligations to pay us royalties, or may contest the scope and extent of their obligations. the royalties we can obtain to monetize our intellectual property may decline because of the evolution of technology, selling price changes in products using licensed patents, or the difficulty of discovering infringements. finally, our increasing engagement with open source software will also cause us to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations and may negatively impact revenue. 25 part i item 1a third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. from time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as surface. to resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. these outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. in some countries, such as germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. we have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. we have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. these claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases such as windows 10, significant business transactions, warranty or product claims, and employment practices. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. a material adverse impact in our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. as a leading global software and device maker, government agencies closely scrutinize us under u.s. and foreign competition laws. governments are actively enforcing competition laws and regulations, and this includes scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the european union ( eu ), the u.s., and china. some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. u.s. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business. the european commission ( the commission ) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. flagship product releases such as windows 10 can receive significant scrutiny under competition laws. for example, in 2004, the commission ordered us to create new versions of our windows operating system that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary windows communications protocols in their own products. in 2009, the commission accepted a set of commitments we offered to address the commission's concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address commission concerns relating to interoperability. the web browsing commitments expired in 2014. the remaining obligations may limit our ability to innovate in windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the windows platform, and increase our product development costs. the availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products. our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow at the same time our oem partners offer a large variety of devices for our platforms. as a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our oem partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase. certain foreign governments, particularly in china and other countries in asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may result in fines, or hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. new competition law actions could be initiated, potentially using previous actions as precedent. the outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: we may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. 26 part i item 1a we may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. we are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees, or other voluntary actions we have taken. if we fail to comply with these commitments, we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions. our ability to realize anticipated windows 10 post-sale monetization opportunities may be limited. our global operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations ( anti-corruption laws ) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents, and the accounting provisions of the fcpa require us to maintain accurate books and records and adequate internal controls. from time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the u.s. and elsewhere which may be based on reports from employees and others about our business activities outside the u.s. and our compliance with anti-corruption laws. periodically, we receive such reports directly and investigate them. on july 22, 2019, our hungarian subsidiary entered into a non-prosecution agreement ( npa ) with the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) and we agreed to the terms of a cease and desist order with the securities and exchange commission. these agreements required us to pay $25.3 million in monetary penalties, disgorgement, and interest pertaining to activities at microsoft's subsidiary in hungary. the npa, which has a three-year term, also contains certain ongoing compliance requirements, including the obligations to disclose to the doj issues that may implicate the fcpa and to cooperate in any inquiries. most countries in which we operate also have competition laws that prohibit competitors from colluding or otherwise attempting to reduce competition between themselves. while we devote substantial resources to our u.s. and international compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments and collusive activity, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. our failure to comply with anti-corruption laws or competition laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. operations outside the u.s. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. we may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of u.s. trade sanctions on restricted entities or countries such as crimea, cuba, iran, north korea, sudan, and syria. other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, and online content. for example, some regulators are taking the position that our offerings such as microsoft teams and skype are covered by existing laws regulating telecommunications services, and some new laws, including eu member state laws under the european electronic communications code, are defining more of our services as regulated telecommunications services. this trend may continue and will result in these offerings being subjected to additional data protection, security, and law enforcement surveillance obligations. data protection authorities may assert that our collection, use, and management of customer data is inconsistent with their laws and regulations. legislative or regulatory action relating to cybersecurity requirements may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services. legislative or regulatory action could also emerge in the area of ai and content moderation, increasing costs or restricting opportunity. applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. additionally, these laws and governments' approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve. compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. we strive to empower all people and organizations to achieve more, and accessibility of our products is an important aspect of this goal. there is increasing pressure from advocacy groups, regulators, competitors, customers, and other stakeholders to make technology more accessible. if our products do not meet customer expectations or emerging global accessibility requirements, we could lose sales opportunities or face regulatory actions 27 part i item 1a laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, fines against us, or reputational damage . the growth of our internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. for example, in july 2020 the court of justice of the eu invalidated a framework called privacy shield for companies to transfer data from eu member states to the united states. this ruling has led to uncertainty about the legal requirements for data transfers from the eu under other l egal mechanisms. potential new rules and restrictions on the flow of data across borders could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services in some markets. in may 2018, the eu general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), became effective. the law, which applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the eu or related to products and services offered in the eu, imposes a range of compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data. engineering efforts to build and maintain capabilities to facilitate compliance with the law have entailed substantial expense and the diversion of engineering resources from other projects and may continue to do so. we might experience reduced demand for our offerings if we are unable to engineer products that meet our legal duties or help our customers meet their obligations under the gdpr or other data regulations, or if our implementation to comply with the gdpr make our offerings less attractive. the gdpr imposes significant new obligations and compliance with these obligations depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply them. if we fail to comply with the gdpr, or if regulators assert we have failed to comply with the gdpr, it may lead to regulatory enforcement actions, which can result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue, private lawsuits, reputational damage , and loss of customers . countries around the world, and states in the u.s . such as california , ha ve adopted, or are considering adopting or expanding , laws and regulations imposing obligations regarding the handling of personal data. the company's investment in gaining insights from data is becoming central to the value of the services we deliver to customers, to our operational efficiency and key opportunities in monetization, customer perceptions of quality, and operational efficiency. our ability to use data in this way may be constrained by regulatory developments that impede realizing the expected return from this investment. ongoing legal analyses, reviews, and inquiries by regulators of microsoft practices, or relevant practices of other organizations, may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements, including data sovereignty and localization requirements, affecting the location, movement, collection, and use of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data. compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding personal data may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. compliance with data regulations might limit our ability to innovate or offer certain features and functionality in some jurisdictions where we operate. failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity, as well as negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. for example, compliance with the 2017 united states tax cuts and jobs act ( tcja ) may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the company, the use of estimates in our consolidated financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. as regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the tcja, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our consolidated financial statements. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. although we believe that our provision for income taxes and our tax estimates are reasonable, tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken. in addition, economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. we are currently under internal revenue service audit for prior tax years, with the primary unresolved issues relating to transfer pricing. the final resolution of those audits, and other audits or litigation, may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods in which that determination is made. 28 part i item 1a we earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the u.s. a change in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, changes in u.s. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, including in the u.s., and changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions may materially adversely impact our consolidated financial statements. if our reputation or our brands are damaged, our business and operating results may be harmed . our reputation and brands are globally recognized and are important to our business. our reputation and brands affect our ability to attract and retain consumer, business, and public-sector customers. there are numerous ways our reputation or brands could be damaged. these include product safety or quality issues, or our environmental impact and sustainability, supply chain practices, or human rights record. we may experience backlash from customers, government entities, advocacy groups, employees, and other stakeholders that disagree with our product offering decisions or public policy positions. damage to our reputation or our brands may occur from, among other things: the introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like. public scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, data practices, or content. data security breaches, compliance failures, or actions of partners or individual employees. the proliferation of social media may increase the likelihood, speed, and magnitude of negative brand events. if our brands or reputation are damaged, it could negatively impact our revenues or margins, or ability to attract the most highly qualified employees. our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. our customers are located throughout the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. the global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. our results of operations may be affected by global, regional, and local economic developments, monetary policy, inflation, and recession, as well as political and military disputes. in addition, our international growth strategy includes certain markets, the developing nature of which presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. emerging nationalist trends in specific countries may significantly alter the trade environment. changes to trade policy or agreements as a result of populism, protectionism, or economic nationalism may result in higher tariffs, local sourcing initiatives, or other developments that make it more difficult to sell our products in foreign countries. disruptions of these kinds in developed or emerging markets could negatively impact demand for our products and services or increase operating costs. although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our results of operations . our business with government customers may present additional uncertainties. we derive substantial revenue from government contracts. government contracts generally can present risks and challenges not present in private commercial agreements. for instance, we may be subject to government audits and investigations relating to these contracts, we could be suspended or debarred as a governmental contractor, we could incur civil and criminal fines and penalties, and under certain circumstances contracts may be rescinded. some agreements may allow a government to terminate without cause and provide for higher liability limits for certain losses. some contracts may be subject to periodic funding approval, reductions, or delays which could adversely impact public-sector demand for our products and services. these events could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition, and reputation . adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, pandemic, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower it spending and adversely affect our revenue. if demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network. oems building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. the impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, oem, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. 29 part i item 1a challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. as a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by market downturns or events that affect global financial markets. a significant part of our investment portfolio comprises u.s. government securities. if global financial markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. a disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyberattack, terrorist attack, pandemic, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the seattle, washington area, and we have other business operations in the silicon valley area of california, both of which are seismically active regions. a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems, or the infrastructure or systems they rely on, such as power grids, could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages in our consolidated financial statements. abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers. geopolitical change may result in changing regulatory requirements that could impact our operating strategies, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. geopolitical instability may lead to sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some markets or with some public-sector customers. any of these changes may negatively impact our revenues. the occurrence of regional epidemics or a global pandemic may adversely affect our operations, financial condition, and results of operations. the covid-19 pandemic is having widespread, rapidly evolving, and unpredictable impacts on global society, economies, financial markets, and business practices. federal and state governments have implemented measures in an effort to contain the virus, including social distancing, travel restrictions, border closures, limitations on public gatherings, work from home, supply chain logistical changes, and closure of non-essential businesses. to protect the health and well-being of our employees, suppliers, and customers, we have made substantial modifications to employee travel policies, implemented office closures as employees are advised to work from home, and cancelled or shifted our conferences and other marketing events to virtual-only through fiscal year 2021. the covid-19 pandemic has impacted and may continue to impact our business operations, including our employees, customers, partners, and communities, and there is substantial uncertainty in the nature and degree of its continued effects over time. in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2020, we have experienced adverse impacts to our supply chain, a slowdown in transactional licensing, and lower demand for our advertising services. the extent to which the covid-19 pandemic impacts our business going forward will depend on numerous evolving factors we cannot reliably predict, including the duration and scope of the pandemic governmental, business, and individuals' actions in response to the pandemic and the impact on economic activity including the possibility of recession or financial market instability. these factors may adversely impact consumer, business, and government spending on technology as well as customers' ability to pay for our products and services on an ongoing basis. this uncertainty also affects management's accounting estimates and assumptions, which could result in greater variability in a variety of areas that depend on these estimates and assumptions, including investments, receivables, and forward-looking guidance. 30 part i item 1a measures to contain the virus that impact us, our partners, distributors, and suppliers may further intensify these impacts and other risks described in these risk factors. any of these may adversely impact our ability to: maintain our operations infrastructure, including the reliability and adequate capacity of cloud services. satisfy our contractual and regulatory compliance obligations as we adapt to changing usage patterns, such as through datacenter load balancing. ensure a high-quality and consistent supply chain and manufacturing operations for our hardware devices and datacenter operations. effectively manage our international operations through changes in trade practices and policies. hire and deploy people where we most need them. sustain the effectiveness and productivity of our operations including our sales, marketing, engineering, and distribution functions. we may incur increased costs to effectively manage these aspects of our business. if we are unsuccessful it may adversely impact our revenues, cash flows, market share growth, and reputation. the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy and the it industry in particular are unclear. environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy or other resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. changes in climate where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees representing diverse backgrounds, experiences, and skill sets. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. maintaining our brand and reputation, as well as a diverse and inclusive work environment that enables all our employees to thrive, are important to our ability to recruit and retain employees. we are also limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. changes to u.s. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development efforts. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain highly skilled workers and key leaders, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. how employment-related laws are interpreted and applied to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. 31 part i item 1b, 2, 3, 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitat ive disclosures about market risk risks we are exposed to economic risk from foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, and equity prices. we use derivatives instruments to manage these risks, however, they may still impact our consolidated financial statements. foreign currencies certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions, including hedges. principal currency exposures include the euro, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar. interest rate securities held in our fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest rate risks based on their maturities. we manage the average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global fixed-income indices. credit our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities. we manage credit exposures relative to broad-based indices and to facilitate portfolio diversification. equity securities held in our equity investments portfolio are subject to price risk. sensitivity analysis the following table sets forth the potential loss in future earnings or fair values, including associated derivatives, resulting from hypothetical changes in relevant market rates or prices: (in millions) risk categories hypothetical change june 30, 2020 impact foreign currency revenue 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates $ (4,142 ) earnings foreign currency investments 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates (119 ) fair value interest rate 100 basis point increase in u.s. treasury interest rates (3,951 ) fair value credit 100 basis point increase in credit spreads (301 ) fair value equity 10% decrease in equity market prices (239 ) earnings 54 part ii item 8