risk factors 7 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements, which are discussed immediately following item 7a. of this form 10-k. these risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and may be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 table of contents part i, item 1a a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 80 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 76% of our consolidated revenue in 2010, 84% in 2009 and 78% in 2008. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, sudan and cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. united states law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in certain of these countries. additionally, in 2009 prior to its merger with schlumberger, smith received an administrative subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in certain countries that are subject to united states trade and economic sanctions. if any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. our merger with smith will continue to be dilutive to our earnings per share in the near term, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. our merger with smith will continue to be dilutive to earnings per share in the near term. future events and conditions could decrease or delay any accretion, result in dilution or cause greater dilution than is currently expected, including adverse changes in: energy market conditions; commodity prices for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids; production levels; reserve levels; operating results; competitive conditions; laws and regulations affecting the energy business; capital expenditure obligations; and general economic conditions. 8 table of contents part i, item 1a any dilution of, or decrease or delay of any accretion to, our earnings per share could cause the price of our common stock to decline. our offshore oil and gas operations could be adversely impacted by the deepwater horizon drilling rig accident and resulting oil spill; changes in and compliance with restrictions or regulations on offshore drilling in the us gulf of mexico and in other areas around the world may adversely affect our business and operating results. on april 20, 2010, a fire and explosion occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig deepwater horizon , owned by transocean ltd. and under contract to a subsidiary of bp plc. as a result of the incident and related oil spill, the secretary of the us department of the interior directed the bureau of ocean energy management, regulation and enforcement ( boemre ) to issue a suspension, until november 30, 2010, of drilling activities for specified drilling configurations and technologies. although this moratorium was lifted on october 12, 2010, effective immediately, we cannot predict with certainty when drilling operations will fully resume in the us gulf of mexico. the boemre has also issued new guidelines and regulations regarding safety, environmental matters, drilling equipment and decommissioning applicable to drilling in the us gulf of mexico, and may take other additional steps that could increase the costs of exploration and production, reduce the area of operations and result in permitting delays. at this time, we cannot predict with any certainty what further impact, if any, the deepwater horizon incident may have on the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, or on the cost or availability of insurance coverage to cover the risks of such operations. ongoing effects of and delays from the lifted suspension of drilling activity in the us gulf of mexico, or the enactment of new or stricter regulations in the united states and other countries where we operate, could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services, such as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems, subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and explosives and well completion systems, are used in hostile environments, such as exploration, development and production applications. an accident or a failure of a product could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, and suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. substantial claims made under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or 9 table of contents part i, item 1a are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in the form of service offerings in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities until the platforms or structures have been repaired. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced or eliminated by governmental regulation or a change in the law. international, national, and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. in the united states, the environmental protection agency ( epa ) is taking steps to require monitoring and reporting of ghg emissions and to regulate ghgs as pollutants under the clean air act ( caa ). the epa mandatory reporting of greenhouse gases rule established a comprehensive scheme of regulations that require monitoring and reporting of ghg emissions that began in 2010. furthermore, the epa recently proposed additional ghg reporting rules specifically for the oil and gas industry. the epa has also published a final rule, the endangerment finding, finding that ghgs in the atmosphere endanger public health and welfare, and that emissions of ghgs from mobile sources cause or 10 table of contents part i, item 1a contribute to the ghg pollution. following issuance of the endangerment finding, the epa promulgated final motor vehicle ghg emission standards on april 1, 2010. the epa has asserted that the final motor vehicle ghg emission standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. in addition, climate change legislation is pending in the united states congress. these developments may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect future results of operations. additionally, legislation to reduce greenhouse gases may have an adverse effect on our operations, including payment of additional costs due to carbon emissions. higher carbon emission activities include transportation, including marine vessels, cement production (by third party suppliers), and electricity generation (by third party suppliers) as well as other activities. finally, our business could be negatively affected by climate change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns, which could result in damages to or loss of our physical assets, impacts to our ability to conduct operations and/or disruption of our customers operations. legislation may be introduced in the united states congress that would authorize the epa to regulate hydraulic fracturing. in addition, a number of states are evaluating the adoption of legislation or regulations governing hydraulic fracturing. such legislation or regulations could reduce demand for pressure pumping services. if federal and/or state legislation or regulations were enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are unable to predict whether the proposed legislation, regulations, or any other proposals will ultimately be enacted. 11 table of contents part i, item 1b, 2, 3, 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 of this form 10-k. these risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and may be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 table of contents part i, item 1a a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 80 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 76% of our consolidated revenue in 2010, 84% in 2009 and 78% in 2008. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, sudan and cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. united states law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in certain of these countries. additionally, in 2009 prior to its merger with schlumberger, smith received an administrative subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in certain countries that are subject to united states trade and economic sanctions. if any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. our merger with smith will continue to be dilutive to our earnings per share in the near term, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. our merger with smith will continue to be dilutive to earnings per share in the near term. future events and conditions could decrease or delay any accretion, result in dilution or cause greater dilution than is currently expected, including adverse changes in: energy market conditions; commodity prices for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids; production levels; reserve levels; operating results; competitive conditions; laws and regulations affecting the energy business; capital expenditure obligations; and general economic conditions. 8 table of contents part i, item 1a any dilution of, or decrease or delay of any accretion to, our earnings per share could cause the price of our common stock to decline. our offshore oil and gas operations could be adversely impacted by the deepwater horizon drilling rig accident and resulting oil spill; changes in and compliance with restrictions or regulations on offshore drilling in the us gulf of mexico and in other areas around the world may adversely affect our business and operating results. on april 20, 2010, a fire and explosion occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig deepwater horizon , owned by transocean ltd. and under contract to a subsidiary of bp plc. as a result of the incident and related oil spill, the secretary of the us department of the interior directed the bureau of ocean energy management, regulation and enforcement ( boemre ) to issue a suspension, until november 30, 2010, of drilling activities for specified drilling configurations and technologies. although this moratorium was lifted on october 12, 2010, effective immediately, we cannot predict with certainty when drilling operations will fully resume in the us gulf of mexico. the boemre has also issued new guidelines and regulations regarding safety, environmental matters, drilling equipment and decommissioning applicable to drilling in the us gulf of mexico, and may take other additional steps that could increase the costs of exploration and production, reduce the area of operations and result in permitting delays. at this time, we cannot predict with any certainty what further impact, if any, the deepwater horizon incident may have on the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, or on the cost or availability of insurance coverage to cover the risks of such operations. ongoing effects of and delays from the lifted suspension of drilling activity in the us gulf of mexico, or the enactment of new or stricter regulations in the united states and other countries where we operate, could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services, such as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems, subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and explosives and well completion systems, are used in hostile environments, such as exploration, development and production applications. an accident or a failure of a product could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, and suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. substantial claims made under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or 9 table of contents part i, item 1a are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in the form of service offerings in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities until the platforms or structures have been repaired. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced or eliminated by governmental regulation or a change in the law. international, national, and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. in the united states, the environmental protection agency ( epa ) is taking steps to require monitoring and reporting of ghg emissions and to regulate ghgs as pollutants under the clean air act ( caa ). the epa mandatory reporting of greenhouse gases rule established a comprehensive scheme of regulations that require monitoring and reporting of ghg emissions that began in 2010. furthermore, the epa recently proposed additional ghg reporting rules specifically for the oil and gas industry. the epa has also published a final rule, the endangerment finding, finding that ghgs in the atmosphere endanger public health and welfare, and that emissions of ghgs from mobile sources cause or 10 table of contents part i, item 1a contribute to the ghg pollution. following issuance of the endangerment finding, the epa promulgated final motor vehicle ghg emission standards on april 1, 2010. the epa has asserted that the final motor vehicle ghg emission standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. in addition, climate change legislation is pending in the united states congress. these developments may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect future results of operations. additionally, legislation to reduce greenhouse gases may have an adverse effect on our operations, including payment of additional costs due to carbon emissions. higher carbon emission activities include transportation, including marine vessels, cement production (by third party suppliers), and electricity generation (by third party suppliers) as well as other activities. finally, our business could be negatively affected by climate change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns, which could result in damages to or loss of our physical assets, impacts to our ability to conduct operations and/or disruption of our customers operations. legislation may be introduced in the united states congress that would authorize the epa to regulate hydraulic fracturing. in addition, a number of states are evaluating the adoption of legislation or regulations governing hydraulic fracturing. such legislation or regulations could reduce demand for pressure pumping services. if federal and/or state legislation or regulations were enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are unable to predict whether the proposed legislation, regulations, or any other proposals will ultimately be enacted. 11 table of contents part i, item 1b, 2, 3, 4 item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing centers as its principal owned or leased facilities. the following sets forth schlumberger principal owned or leased facilities by business segment: oilfield services: beijing, china; clamart, france; fuchinobe, japan; singapore; abingdon, cambridge and stonehouse, united kingdom; novosibirsk, russia; and within the united states: boston, massachusetts; houston, rosharon and sugar land, texas; and lawrence, kansas. westerngeco: bergen and oslo, norway; gatwick, united kingdom; houston, texas, united states; and mumbai, india. m-i swaco: aberdeen, edinburgh, foss and aberfly, scotland; karmoy, norway; and within the united states: battle mountain and greystone, nevada; greybull, wyoming; amelia and port fourchon, louisiana; galveston and houston, texas; florence, kentucky; and tulsa, oklahoma. smith oilfield: aberdeen, scotland; scurelle, italy; neuquen, argentina; jebel ali, dubai; changzhou, china and within the united states: houston, texas; ponca city, oklahoma; provo, utah; and rancho cucuamonga, california. distribution: edmonton, canada; and within the united states: laporte, texas; long beach, california; and south plainfield, new jersey. item 3 . legal proceedings. the information with respect to this item 3 is set forth in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. [removed and reserved] executive officers of schlumberger the following table sets forth, as of january 31, 2011, the names and ages of the executive officers of schlumberger, including all offices and positions held by each for at least the past five years. name age present position and five-year business experience andrew gould 64 chairman and chief executive officer, since february 2003. paal kibsgaard 43 chief operating officer since february 2010; president reservoir characterization group, may 2009 to february 2010; vice president engineering, manufacturing and sustaining, november 2007 to may 2009; vice president personnel, april 2006 to november 2007; and president, drilling and measurements, january 2003 to april 2006. simon ayat 56 executive vice president and chief financial officer, since march 2007; vice president treasurer, february 2005 to march 2007; and vice president, controller and business processes, december 2002 to february 2005. alexander juden 50 secretary and general counsel, since april 2009; director of compliance, february 2005 to april 2009; and westerngeco general counsel, may 2004 to february 2005. ashok belani 52 vice president, technology, since january 2011; president, reservoir characterization group, since february 2010; vice president and chief technology officer, april 2006 to february 2010; senior advisor, technology, january 2006 to april 2006; director, president and chief executive officer nptest, may 2002 to december 2005. stephanie cox 42 vice president personnel, since may 2009; north gulf coast geomarket manager, april 2006 to may 2009; and north south america personnel manager, may 2004 to april 2006. mark danton 54 vice president - director of taxes, since january 1999. howard guild 39 chief accounting officer, since july 2005; and director of financial reporting, october 2004 to july 2005. 12 table of contents part i, item 4 name age present position and five-year business experience rodney nelson 52 vice president communications, innovation and collaboration, since october 2007; vice president innovation and collaboration, july 2006 to october 2007; vice president strategic marketing, july 2004 to july 2006; and vice president marketing oilfield services, february 2003 to july 2004. kjell-erik oestdahl 46 vice president operations, since january 2011; vice president supply chain services, since may 2009; vice president operations westerngeco, january 2008 to april 2009; chief procurement officer at statoilhydro asa, march 2006 to november 2007; geomarket manager, nsg, from january 2005 to february 2006. satish pai 49 vice president, operations, oilfield services, since may 2008, president europe africa caspian, march 2006 to may 2008; and vice president oilfield technologies, march 2002 to march 2006. douglas pferdehirt 46 vice president corporate development and communication, since january 2011; president reservoir production group, from april 2006 to january 2011; and vice president communications and investor relations, july 2003 to march 2006. jean-francois poupeau 49 president drilling group, since may 2010; president drilling measurements, july 2007 to april 2010; vice president communications and investor relations, april 2006 to june 2007; and vice president oilfield services product marketing, august 2004 to march 2006. patrick schorn 42 president reservoir production group, since january 2011; president well services, may 2008 to january 2011; president completions, april 2006 to april 2008; marketing manager well services, august 2004 to march 2006. krishna shivram 48 vice president treasurer, since january 2011; controller drilling group, may 2010 to january 2011; manager mergers acquisitions, may 2009 to april 2010; controller oilfield services, august 2006 to april 2009; vice president finance westerngeco, march 2004 to july 2006. malcolm theobald 49 vice president investor relations, since june 2007; and global account director, september 2001 to june 2007. 13 table of contents part ii, item 5 part ii item 5. market for schlumberger common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of january 31, 2011, there were approximately 23,924 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger common stock is the nyse, where it is traded under the symbol slb . schlumberger common stock is also traded on the euronext paris, euronext amsterdam, london and six swiss stock exchanges. common stock, market prices and dividends declared per share quarterly high and low prices for schlumberger common stock as reported by the nyse (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2010 and 2009, were: price range dividends high low declared 2010 quarters first $ 72.00 $ 59.42 $ 0.210 second 73.99 51.67 0.210 third 63.72 52.91 0.210 fourth 84.11 60.57 0.210 2009 quarters first $ 49.25 $ 35.05 $ 0.210 second 63.78 39.11 0.210 third 63.00 48.13 0.210 fourth 71.10 56.00 0.210 on january 21, 2011, schlumberger announced that its board of directors had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of 19%, to $0.25. there are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any cura ao withholding or other cura ao taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares. the following graph compares the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the standard poor 500 index (s p 500 index) and the cumulative total return on the philadelphia oil service index (osx) over the five-year period ending on december 31, 2010. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. 14 table of contents part ii, item 5 comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger common stock, the p 500 index and the philadelphia oil service index (osx) assumes $100 invested on december 31, 2005 in schlumberger common stock, in the p 500 index and in the philadelphia oil service index (osx). reflects reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment. 15 table of contents part ii, item 5, 6 share repurchases on april 17, 2008, the schlumberger board of directors approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock, to be acquired in the open market before december 31, 2011. schlumberger common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 2010 was as follows: (stated in thousands, except per share amounts) total maximum number of value shares of shares purchased that may as part of yet be total number average price publicly purchased of shares paid per announced under the purchased share program program october 1 through october 31, 2010 1,931.0 $ 63.04 1,931.0 $ 5,176,181 november 1 through november 30, 2010 1,050.0 $ 73.46 1,050.0 $ 5,099,043 december 1 through december 31, 2010 3,074.3 $ 81.35 3,074.3 $ 4,848,944 6,055.3 $ 74.14 6,055.3 in connection with the exercise of stock options under schlumberger incentive compensation plans, schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. schlumberger does not view these transactions as requiring disclosure under this item 5 as the number of shares of schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not material. unregistered sales of equity securities none. item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger conducts business in approximately 80 countries. schlumberger functional currency is primarily the us dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. approximately 80% of schlumberger revenue in 2010 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. a 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2010 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. if the 2010 average exchange rates of the us dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, schlumberger income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 2%. conversely, a 5% weakening of the us dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 3%. although the functional currency of schlumberger operations in venezuela is the us dollar, a portion of the transactions are denominated in local currency. for financial reporting purposes, such transactions are remeasured into us dollars at the official exchange rate, which until january 2010 was fixed at 2.15 venezuela bolivares fuertes per us dollar, despite significant inflation in recent periods. in january 2010, venezuela currency was devalued and a new exchange rate system was announced. during the first quarter of 2010, schlumberger began to apply an exchange rate of 4.3 venezuelan bolivares fuertes per us dollar to its local currency denominated transactions in venezuela. the devaluation did not have an immediate significant impact to schlumberger. further, although this devaluation does result in a reduction in the us dollar reported amount of local currency denominated revenues and expenses, the impact is not material to schlumberger consolidated financial statements. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses. at december 31, 2010, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $7.3 billion in various foreign currencies. schlumberger is subject to the risk of market price fluctuations of certain commodities, such as metals and fuel. schlumberger utilizes forward contracts to manage a small percentage of the price risk associated with forecasted metal purchases. as of december 31, 2010, $12 million of commodity forward contracts were outstanding. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2010, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $5.4 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $2.8 billion. schlumberger has entered into interest rate swaps relating to $0.5 billion of its fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2010 whereby schlumberger will receive interest at a fixed rate and pay interest at a variable rate. schlumberger exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. both short-term investments and fixed income investments , held to maturity , which totaled approximately $3.7 billion at december 31, 2010, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in us dollars. the average return on investment was 1.1% in 2010. 34 table of contents part ii, item 7a the following table represents carrying amounts of schlumberger debt at december 31, 2010 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) expected maturity dates 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2019 total fixed rate debt 5.875% guaranteed bonds $ 334 $ 334 5.25% guaranteed notes $ 659 659 3.00% guaranteed notes 463 463 4.50% guaranteed notes $ 1,319 1,319 8.625% senior notes 272 272 2.75% guaranteed notes $ 1,310 1,310 6.00% senior notes $ 218 218 9.75% senior notes $ 776 776 total fixed rate debt $ 334 $ $ 1,122 $ 1,591 $ 1,310 $ 218 $ 776 $ 5,351 variable rate debt 2,261 445 41 14 2,761 total $ 2,595 $ 445 $ 1,163 $ 1,605 $ 1,310 $ 218 $ 776 $ 8,112 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $5.5 billion as of december 31, 2010. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2010 was approximately 1.0%. schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. forward-looking statements this form 10-k and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of oilfield services and westerngeco (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); the integration of both smith and geoservices into our business; the anticipated benefits of those transactions; oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger customers; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the current global economic downturn; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing erosion; seasonal factors; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; continuing operational delays or program reductions as of result of the lifted drilling moratorium in the gulf of mexico; the inability to successfully integrate the merged smith and geoservices businesses and to realize expected synergies, the inability to retain key employees; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the risk factors section of this form 10-k and other filings that we make with the securities and exchange commission. if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 35 table of contents part ii, item 8quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34risk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31risk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31risk factors 6 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements, as discussed immediately following item 7a. of this report. these risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this report or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with management discussion and analysis, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference in this report. we urge you to carefully consider the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this report were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations. demand for the majority of our oilfield services is substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil or gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry and reduce our operating revenue. 6 table of contents part i, item 1a demand for the majority of our oilfield services is substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves, which are sensitive to oil and natural gas prices and generally dependent on the industry view of future oil and gas prices. oil and gas prices have historically been volatile and are affected by numerous factors, including: demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic development and general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production by non-opec countries; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; the level of worldwide oil exploration and production activity; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely impact our operating results. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 80 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 76% of our consolidated revenue in 2007, 73% in 2006 and 75% in 2005. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; exchange controls; inflation; and currency fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, sudan and cuba, which are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. 7 table of contents part i, item 1a if any of the risks described above materialize, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive, complex and stringent. these laws may provide for strict liability for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our results and financial condition. certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services, such as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems, subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and explosives and well completion systems, are used in hostile environments, such as exploration, development and production applications. an accident or a failure of a product could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, and suspension of operations. our insurance may not adequately protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. substantial claims made under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership in the form of services and products, this could affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver them to our clients in the form of services and products in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could materially reduce our operating revenue and net income. 8 table of contents part i, item 1a, 1b, 2 limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted united states patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular product or service, which would reduce our operating revenue. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities until the platforms or structures have been repaired. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 of this report. these risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this report or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with management discussion and analysis, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference in this report. we urge you to carefully consider the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this report were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations. demand for the majority of our oilfield services is substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil or gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry and reduce our operating revenue. 6 table of contents part i, item 1a demand for the majority of our oilfield services is substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves, which are sensitive to oil and natural gas prices and generally dependent on the industry view of future oil and gas prices. oil and gas prices have historically been volatile and are affected by numerous factors, including: demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic development and general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, or opec, to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production by non-opec countries; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; the level of worldwide oil exploration and production activity; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely impact our operating results. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 80 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 76% of our consolidated revenue in 2007, 73% in 2006 and 75% in 2005. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; exchange controls; inflation; and currency fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, sudan and cuba, which are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. 7 table of contents part i, item 1a if any of the risks described above materialize, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive, complex and stringent. these laws may provide for strict liability for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our results and financial condition. certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services, such as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems, subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and explosives and well completion systems, are used in hostile environments, such as exploration, development and production applications. an accident or a failure of a product could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, and suspension of operations. our insurance may not adequately protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. substantial claims made under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership in the form of services and products, this could affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver them to our clients in the form of services and products in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could materially reduce our operating revenue and net income. 8 table of contents part i, item 1a, 1b, 2 limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted united states patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular product or service, which would reduce our operating revenue. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities until the platforms or structures have been repaired. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. no significant lease is scheduled to terminate in the near future, and schlumberger believes comparable space is readily obtainable should any lease expire without renewal. schlumberger believes its properties are generally well maintained and adequate for the intended use. outside the united states the principal owned or leased facilities of oilfield services are located in beijing, china; clamart and abberville, france; fuchinobe, japan; oslo, norway; singapore; abingdon, cambridge and stonehouse, united kingdom and novosibirsk, russia. within the united states, the principal owned or leased facilities of oilfield services are located in boston, massachusetts; and houston, rosharon, and sugar land, texas; and lawrence, kansas. 9 table of contents part i, item 2, 3, 4 the principal owned or leased facilities of westerngeco are located in bergen and oslo, norway; gatwick, united kingdom; houston, texas, united states; and mumbai, india. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to item 3 is set forth in note 17 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders. no matters were submitted to a vote of schlumberger security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. 10 table of contents part i, item 4 executive officers of schlumberger information with respect to the executive officers of schlumberger and their ages as of february 13, 2008 is set forth below. the positions for each executive officer have been held for at least five years, except where stated. name age present position and five-year business experience andrew gould 61 chairman and chief executive officer, since february 2003. simon ayat 53 executive vice president and chief financial officer, since march 2007; vice president treasurer, february 2005 to march 2007; and vice president, controller and business processes, december 2002 to february 2005. chakib sbiti 53 executive vice president, since february 2003. dalton boutte 53 executive vice president, since february 2004; and president westerngeco, since january 2003. ellen summer 61 secretary and general counsel, since march 2002. ashok belani 49 vice president and chief technology officer, since april 2006; senior advisor, technology, january 2006 to april 2006; director, president and chief executive officer nptest, may 2002 to december 2005. mark corrigan 49 vice president operations oilfield services, since april 2006; president, well services, february 2003 to april 2006. mark danton 51 vice president - director of taxes, since january 1999. howard guild 36 chief accounting officer, since july 2005; director of financial reporting, october 2004 to july 2005; and senior manager, pricewaterhousecoopers llp, july 2001 to october 2004. paal kibsgaard 40 vice president engineering, manufacturing and sustaining, since november 2007; vice president personnel, april 2006 to november 2007; and president, drilling and measurements, january 2003 to april 2006. catherine macgregor 35 vice president personnel since november 2007; director of personnel, oilfield services, january 2007 to november 2007; operations manager, bmp drilling &amp; measurements, august 2005 to january 2007; management development champion, oilfield services, september 2004 to august 2005; and dvd product champion, drilling &amp; measurements, july 2002 to march 2004. rodney nelson 49 vice president communications, since october 2007; vp innovation and collaboration, july 2006 to october 2007; vp strategic marketing, july 2004 to july 2006; and vp marketing oilfield services, february 2003 to july 2004. h. sola oyinlola 52 vice president treasurer, since march 2007; deputy treasurer, july 2006 to march 2007; and oilfield services geomarket general manager, nigeria, april 2001 to july 2006. malcolm theobald 46 vice president investor relations, since june 2007; and global account director, september 2001 to june 2007 sophie zurquiyah-rousset 41 chief information officer, since december 2006; director of personnel, oilfield services, april 2005 to december 2006; and oilfield services geomarket manager, latin america south, february 2003 to april 2005. 11 table of contents part ii, item 5 part ii item 5. market for schlumberger common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of january 31, 2008, there were 1,197,711,334 shares of common stock of schlumberger outstanding, exclusive of 136,500,830 shares held in treasury, and approximately 18,750 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger common stock is the nyse, where it is traded under the symbol slb . schlumberger common stock is also traded on the euronext paris, euronext amsterdam, london and swx swiss stock exchanges. common stock, market prices and dividends declared per share quarterly high and low prices for schlumberger common stock as reported by the nyse (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2007 and 2006, were: price range dividends declared high low 2007 quarters first $ 71.170 $ 55.680 $ 0.1750 second 89.200 68.250 0.1750 third 108.750 81.260 0.1750 fourth 114.840 87.420 0.1750 2006 quarters first $ 65.875 $ 49.200 $ 0.1250 second 74.750 54.000 0.1250 third 68.550 54.730 0.1250 fourth 69.300 56.850 0.1250 there are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any netherlands antilles withholding or other netherlands antilles taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares. on january 17, 2008, schlumberger limited announced that its board of directors had approved a 20% increase in the quarterly dividend, to $0.21 per share. the increase is effective commencing with the dividend payable on april 4, 2008 to stockholders of record on february 20, 2008. 12 table of contents part ii, item 5 the following graph compares the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the standard &amp; poor 500 stock index and the cumulative total return on value line oilfield services industry group over the preceding five-year period ending on december 31, 2007. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. assumes $100 invested on december 31, 2002 in schlumberger limited stock, in the s&amp;p 500 index and in value line oilfield services industry index. reflects reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment and annual reweighting of the industry peer index portfolio. 13 table of contents part ii, item 5 share repurchases on april 20, 2006, the board of directors of schlumberger limited approved a share repurchase program of up to 40 million shares of common stock to be acquired in the open market before april 2010, subject to market conditions. the following table sets forth information on schlumberger common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 2007. (stated in thousands except per share amounts) total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the program october 1 through october 31, 2007 1,409.1 $ 102.11 1,409.1 14,515.3 november 1 through november 30, 2007 2,966.6 $ 93.48 2,966.6 11,548.7 december 1 through december 31, 2007 1,448.7 $ 93.87 1,448.7 10,100.0 5,824.4 $ 95.67 5,824.4 in connection with the exercise of stock options under schlumberger incentive compensation plans, schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. schlumberger does not view these transactions as implicating the disclosure required under this item. the number of shares of schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is immaterial. unregistered sales of equity securities during the quarter ended december 31, 2007, schlumberger issued 3,821,391 shares of its common stock upon conversion by holders of $138 million aggregate principal amount of its 1.5% series a convertible debentures due june 1, 2023, and 677,950 shares of its common stock upon conversion by holders of $27 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.125% series b convertible debentures due june 1, 2023. such shares were issued in transactions exempt from registration under section 3(a)(9) of the securities act of 1933, as amended. 14 table of contents part ii, item 6 item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risk primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger conducts its business in approximately 80 countries. schlumberger functional currency is primarily the us dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. approximately 83% of schlumberger revenue in 2007 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. a 5% change in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2007 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. if the 2007 average exchange rates of the us dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, schlumberger income from continuing operations would have increased by 3%. conversely, a 5% weakening of the us dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by 3%. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. foreign currency forward contracts provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses. at december 31, 2007, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $2.6 billion in various foreign currencies. these contracts mature on various dates in 2008. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable- and fixed-rate debt together with interest rate swaps, where appropriate, to fix or lower borrowing costs. at december 31, 2007, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $2.6 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $2.9 billion. schlumberger exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also somewhat mitigated by its investment portfolio. both short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity , which totaled approximately $3.4 billion at december 31, 2007, are comprised primarily of eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit and commercial paper, euronotes and eurobonds, and are substantially all denominated in us dollars. the average return on investment was 5.2% in 2007. 35 table of contents part ii, item 7a the following table represents principal amounts of schlumberger debt at december 31, 2007 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) expected maturity dates 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 total fixed rate debt 1.5% series a convertible debentures $ 353 $ 353 5.25% guaranteed bonds (euro denominated) 357 357 6.25% guaranteed bonds (british pound denominated) 34 34 2.125% series b convertible debentures $ 416 416 5.14% guaranteed notes (canadian dollar denominated) 255 255 5.875% guaranteed bonds (euro denominated) $ 372 372 6.5% notes $ 647 647 10.875% senior secured bonds 160 160 total fixed rate debt $ 744 $ $ 671 $ 372 $ 807 $ 2,594 variable rate debt $ 928 $ 605 $ 265 $ 364 $ 688 $ 2,850 total $ 1,672 $ 605 $ 936 $ 736 $ 1,495 $ 5,444 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $3.9 billion as of december 31, 2007. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2007 was approximately 5.3%. on december 31, 2007, interest rate swap arrangements outstanding were pay floating/receive fixed on us dollar debt of $40 million. these arrangements mature at various dates to december 2009. interest rate swap arrangements decreased consolidated interest expense in 2007 by $0.4 million. schlumberger does not enter into foreign currency or interest rate derivatives for speculative purposes. 36 table of contents part ii, item 7a forward-looking statements this report and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of oilfield services and westerngeco (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; operating margins; operating and capital expenditures as well as research &amp; development spending, by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger customers; expected depreciation and amortization expense; expected pension and post-retirement funding; expected stock compensation costs; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the global economy; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; and other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report, including under item 1a. risk factors and elsewhere in this report. if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 37 table of contents part ii, item 8risk factors 6 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements, as discussed immediately following item 7a. of this report. these risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this report or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with management discussion and analysis, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. we urge you to carefully consider the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this report were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. current global economic conditions have resulted in a significant decline in oil and gas prices. if current global economic conditions and the availability of credit worsen or continue for an extended period, this could reduce our customers levels of expenditures and have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. 6 table of contents part 1, item 1a the current global credit and economic environment has reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in significantly lower crude oil and natural gas prices. a substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices can reduce our customers activities and their spending on our services and products. demand for the majority of our services substantially depends on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are sensitive to oil and natural gas prices and generally dependent on the industry view of future oil and gas prices. as the worldwide deterioration in the financial and credit markets has deepened in recent months, demand for oil and gas has reduced dramatically and oil and gas prices have fallen sharply, causing some of our customers to start to reduce or delay their oil and gas exploration and production spending. this has started to reduce the demand for our services and has begun to exert downward pressure on the prices that we charge. if economic conditions continue to deteriorate or do not improve, it could result in further reductions of exploration and production expenditures by our customers, causing further declines in the demand for our services and products. this could result in a significant adverse effect on our operating results. furthermore, it is difficult to predict how long the economic downturn will continue, to what extent it will worsen, and to what extent this will continue to affect us. the reduction in cash flows being experienced by our customers resulting from declines in commodity prices, together with the reduced availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing due to the tightening of the credit markets, could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of our customers. this could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by current global economic conditions. if certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of additional factors, including: demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic development and general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production by non-opec countries; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; the level of worldwide oil exploration and production activity; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 80 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 78% of our consolidated revenue in 2008, 76% in 2007 and 73% in 2006. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas; 7 table of contents part 1, item 1a exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; exchange controls; inflation; and currency fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, sudan and cuba, which are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive, complex and stringent. these laws may provide for strict liability for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our results and financial condition. certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services, such as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems, subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and explosives and well completion 8 table of contents part 1, item 1a systems, are used in hostile environments, such as exploration, development and production applications. an accident or a failure of a product could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, and suspension of operations. our insurance may not adequately protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. substantial claims made under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership in the form of services and products, this could affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver them to our clients in the form of services and products in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could materially reduce our operating revenue and net income. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted united states patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular product or service, which would reduce our operating revenue. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities until the platforms or structures have been repaired. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue. 9 table of contents part 1, item 1b, 2, 3, 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 of this report. these risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this report or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with management discussion and analysis, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. we urge you to carefully consider the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this report were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. current global economic conditions have resulted in a significant decline in oil and gas prices. if current global economic conditions and the availability of credit worsen or continue for an extended period, this could reduce our customers levels of expenditures and have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. 6 table of contents part 1, item 1a the current global credit and economic environment has reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in significantly lower crude oil and natural gas prices. a substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices can reduce our customers activities and their spending on our services and products. demand for the majority of our services substantially depends on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are sensitive to oil and natural gas prices and generally dependent on the industry view of future oil and gas prices. as the worldwide deterioration in the financial and credit markets has deepened in recent months, demand for oil and gas has reduced dramatically and oil and gas prices have fallen sharply, causing some of our customers to start to reduce or delay their oil and gas exploration and production spending. this has started to reduce the demand for our services and has begun to exert downward pressure on the prices that we charge. if economic conditions continue to deteriorate or do not improve, it could result in further reductions of exploration and production expenditures by our customers, causing further declines in the demand for our services and products. this could result in a significant adverse effect on our operating results. furthermore, it is difficult to predict how long the economic downturn will continue, to what extent it will worsen, and to what extent this will continue to affect us. the reduction in cash flows being experienced by our customers resulting from declines in commodity prices, together with the reduced availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing due to the tightening of the credit markets, could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of our customers. this could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by current global economic conditions. if certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of additional factors, including: demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic development and general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production by non-opec countries; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; the level of worldwide oil exploration and production activity; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 80 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 78% of our consolidated revenue in 2008, 76% in 2007 and 73% in 2006. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas; 7 table of contents part 1, item 1a exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; exchange controls; inflation; and currency fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, sudan and cuba, which are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. if any of the risks described above materialize, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive, complex and stringent. these laws may provide for strict liability for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our results and financial condition. certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services, such as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems, subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and explosives and well completion 8 table of contents part 1, item 1a systems, are used in hostile environments, such as exploration, development and production applications. an accident or a failure of a product could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, and suspension of operations. our insurance may not adequately protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. substantial claims made under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership in the form of services and products, this could affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver them to our clients in the form of services and products in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could materially reduce our operating revenue and net income. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted united states patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular product or service, which would reduce our operating revenue. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities until the platforms or structures have been repaired. any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue. 9 table of contents part 1, item 1b, 2, 3, 4 item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. no significant lease is scheduled to terminate in the near future, and schlumberger believes comparable space is readily obtainable should any lease expire without renewal. schlumberger believes its properties are generally well maintained and adequate for their intended use. outside the united states the principal owned or leased facilities of oilfield services are located in beijing, china; clamart and abbeville, france; fuchinobe, japan; oslo, norway; singapore; abingdon, cambridge and stonehouse, united kingdom; and novosibirsk, russia. within the united states, the principal owned or leased facilities of oilfield services are located in boston, massachusetts; houston, rosharon, and sugar land, texas; and lawrence, kansas. the principal owned or leased facilities of westerngeco are located in bergen and oslo, norway; gatwick, united kingdom; houston, texas, united states; and mumbai, india. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to item 3 is set forth in note 17 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders. no matters were submitted to a vote of schlumberger security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. 10 table of contents part 1, item 4 executive officers of schlumberger information with respect to the executive officers of schlumberger and their ages as of february 11, 2009 is set forth below. the positions for each executive officer have been held for at least five years, except where stated. name age present position and five-year business experience andrew gould 62 chairman and chief executive officer, since february 2003. simon ayat 54 executive vice president and chief financial officer, since march 2007; vice president treasurer, february 2005 to march 2007; and vice president, controller and business processes, december 2002 to february 2005. chakib sbiti 54 executive vice president, since february 2003. dalton boutte 54 executive vice president, since february 2004; and president westerngeco, since january 2003. ellen summer 62 secretary and general counsel, since march 2002. ashok belani 50 vice president and chief technology officer, since april 2006; senior advisor, technology, january 2006 to april 2006; director, president and chief executive officer nptest, may 2002 to december 2005. mark danton 52 vice president - director of taxes, since january 1999. howard guild 37 chief accounting officer, since july 2005; director of financial reporting, october 2004 to july 2005; and senior manager, pricewaterhousecoopers llp, july 2001 to october 2004. paal kibsgaard 41 vice president engineering, manufacturing and sustaining, since november 2007; vice president personnel, april 2006 to november 2007; and president, drilling and measurements, january 2003 to april 2006. catherine macgregor 36 vice president personnel, since november 2007; director of personnel, oilfield services, january 2007 to november 2007; operations manager, drilling &amp; measurements, brunei/malaysia/philippines geomarket august 2005 to january 2007; management development champion, oilfield services, september 2004 to august 2005; and dvd product champion, drilling &amp; measurements, july 2002 to march 2004. rodney nelson 50 vice president communications, since october 2007; vp innovation and collaboration, july 2006 to october 2007; vp strategic marketing, july 2004 to july 2006; and vp marketing oilfield services, february 2003 to july 2004. h. sola oyinlola 53 vice president treasurer, since march 2007; deputy treasurer, july 2006 to march 2007; and oilfield services geomarket general manager, nigeria, april 2001 to july 2006. satish pai 47 vice president, operations, oilfield services, since may 2008, president europe africa &amp; caspian, march 2006 to may 2008; and vice president oilfield technologies, march 2002 to march 2006. malcolm theobald 47 vice president investor relations, since june 2007; and global account director, september 2001 to june 2007. sophie zurquiyah-rousset 42 chief information officer, since december 2006; director of personnel, oilfield services, april 2005 to december 2006; and oilfield services geomarket manager, latin america south, february 2003 to april 2005. 11 table of contents part ii, item 5 part ii item 5. market for schlumberger common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of january 31, 2009, there were 1,195,989,819 shares of common stock of schlumberger outstanding, exclusive of 138,222,345 shares held in treasury, and approximately 19,483 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger common stock is the nyse, where it is traded under the symbol slb . schlumberger common stock is also traded on the euronext paris, euronext amsterdam, london and six swiss stock exchanges. common stock, market prices and dividends declared per share quarterly high and low prices for schlumberger common stock as reported by the nyse (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2008 and 2007, were: price range dividends declared high low 2008 quarters first $ 102.71 $ 72.30 $ 0.210 second 110.11 88.02 0.210 third 111.95 73.53 0.210 fourth 78.00 37.24 0.210 2007 quarters first $ 71.17 $ 55.68 $ 0.175 second 89.20 68.25 0.175 third 108.75 81.26 0.175 fourth 114.84 87.42 0.175 there are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any netherlands antilles withholding or other netherlands antilles taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares. the following graph compares the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the standard &amp; poor 500 stock index and the cumulative total return on value line oilfield services industry group over the preceding five-year period ending on december 31, 2008. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. 12 table of contents part ii, item 5 comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger limited, s&amp;p 500 index and value line oilfield services industry index assumes $100 invested on december 31, 2003 in schlumberger limited stock, in the s&amp;p 500 index, and in value line oilfield services industry index. reflects reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment and annual reweighting of the industry peer index portfolio. 13 table of contents part ii, item 5 share repurchases on april 17, 2008, the board of directors of schlumberger approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for shares of schlumberger common stock to be acquired in the open market before december 31, 2011. the following table sets forth information on schlumberger common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 2008. (stated in thousands, except per share amounts) total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program maximum value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program october 1 through october 31, 2008 1,450.0 $ 64.79 1,450.0 $ 7,125,799 november 1 through november 30, 2008 950.0 $ 48.96 950.0 $ 7,079,286 december 1 through december 31, 2008 300.0 $ 45.24 300.0 $ 7,065,715 2,700.0 $ 57.05 2,700.0 in connection with the exercise of stock options under schlumberger incentive compensation plans, schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. schlumberger does not view these transactions as implicating the disclosure required under this item. the number of shares of schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is immaterial. unregistered sales of equity securities during the quarter ended december 31, 2008, schlumberger issued 286,400 shares of its common stock upon conversion by holders of $11 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.125% series b convertible debentures due june 1, 2023. such shares were issued in transactions exempt from registration under section 3(a)(9) of the securities act of 1933, as amended. 14 table of contents part ii, item 6 item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger conducts business in approximately 80 countries. schlumberger functional currency is primarily the us dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. approximately 80% of schlumberger revenue in 2008 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. a 5% change in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2008 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. if the 2008 average exchange rates of the us dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, schlumberger income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 2%. conversely, a 5% weakening of the us dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 3%. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options to provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses. at december 31, 2008, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $2.9 billion in various foreign currencies. these contracts mature on various dates in 2009. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that generally does not involve derivatives and instead primarily uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2008, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $2.2 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $3.1 billion. schlumberger exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. both short-term investments and fixed income investments , held to maturity , which totaled approximately $4.0 billion at december 31, 2008, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in us dollars. the average return on investment was 3.5% in 2008. 33 table of contents part ii, item 7a the following table represents principal amounts of schlumberger debt at december 31, 2008 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) expected maturity dates 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 total fixed rate debt 5.25% guaranteed bonds (euro denominated) $ 714 $ 714 2.125% series b convertible debentures $ 321 321 5.14% guaranteed notes (canadian dollar denominated) 203 203 5.875% guaranteed bonds (euro denominated) $ 355 355 6.5% notes $ 647 647 total fixed rate debt $ $ 524 $ 355 $ 647 $ 714 $ 2,240 variable rate debt $ 1,597 $ 245 $ 422 $ 771 $ 16 $ 3,051 total $ 1,597 $ 769 $ 777 $ 1,418 $ 730 $ 5,291 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $2.4 billion as of december 31, 2008. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2008 was approximately 4.5%. schlumberger does not enter into foreign currency or interest rate derivatives for speculative purposes. forward-looking statements this report and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of oilfield services and westerngeco (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; operating margins; operating and capital expenditures as well as research &amp; development spending, by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger customers; the schlumberger effective tax rate; schlumberger stock repurchase program; expected pension and post-retirement funding; expected stock compensation costs; exploitation and integration of technology; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the current global economic downturn; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; the financial condition of our suppliers and customers in light of current global economic conditions; operational and project modifications, delays or cancellations; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; and other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report, including under item 1a. risk factors . if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 34 table of contents part ii, item 8risk factors 6 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements which are discussed immediately following item 7a of this form 10-k. these risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to carefully consider the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. our customers capital expenditures may decline in 2010 and beyond if current global economic conditions continue or worsen. this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the current global economic downturn has reduced worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and resulted in significantly lower crude oil and natural gas prices compared to their record highs in july 2008. it is difficult to predict how long the global economic downturn will continue, or to what extent this will continue to affect us. the significant decline in oil and natural gas prices reduced many of our customers activities and spending on our services and products in 2009; this reduction in our customers activities and spending could continue through 2010 and beyond. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are sensitive to the industry view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. the worldwide deterioration in the financial and credit markets, which began in the second half of 2008, resulted in diminished demand for oil and gas and significantly lower oil and natural gas prices. this caused many of our customers to reduce or delay their oil and gas exploration and production spending in 2009, which consequently reduced the demand for our services, and exerted downward pressure on the prices of our services and products. if the economic downturn 6 table of contents part 1, item 1a continues for a prolonged period or if there is little or no economic growth, it will likely result in further reductions of exploration and production expenditures by our customers, causing further declines in the demand for, and prices of, our services and products. this could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the reduction in cash flows being experienced by our customers resulting from declines in commodity prices, together with the reduced availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing, could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of our customers. this could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 80 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 84% of our consolidated revenue in 2009, 78% in 2008 and 76% in 2007. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. 7 table of contents part 1, item 1a in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, sudan and cuba, which are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. united states law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in certain of these countries. if any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services, such as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems, subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and explosives and well completion systems, are used in hostile environments, such as exploration, development and production applications. an accident or a failure of a product could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, and suspension of operations. our insurance may not adequately protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. substantial claims made under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 table of contents part 1, item 1a if we are unable to maintain technology leadership in the form of services and products, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in the form of services and products in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities until the platforms or structures have been repaired. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 table of contents part 1, item 1b, 2, 3, 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger conducts business in approximately 80 countries. schlumberger functional currency is primarily the us dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. approximately 80% of schlumberger revenue in 2009 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. a 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2009 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. if the 2009 average exchange rates of the us dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, schlumberger income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 4%. conversely, a 5% weakening of the us dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 4%. although the functional currency of schlumberger operations in venezuela is the us dollar, a portion of the transactions are denominated in local currency. for financial reporting purposes, such transactions are remeasured into us dollars at the official exchange rate, which until january 2010 was fixed at 2.15 venezuelan bolivares fuertes per us dollar, despite significant inflation in recent periods. in january 2010, venezuela currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. schlumberger is in the process of evaluating what exchange rate will apply to schlumberger local currency denominated transactions. such rate is expected to be between 2.6 and 4.3 venezuelan bolivars fuertes per us dollar. schlumberger does not expect the immediate impact of this devaluation to have a significant impact on its first quarter 2010 results of operations. going forward, although this devaluation will result in a reduction in the us dollar reported amount of local currency denominated revenues and expenses, the impact will not be material to schlumberger consolidated financial statements. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options to provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses. at december 31, 2009, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $4.3 billion in various foreign currencies. schlumberger is subject to the risk of market price fluctuations of certain commodities, such as metals and fuel. schlumberger utilizes forward contracts to manage a small percentage of the price risk associated with forecast metal purchases. as of december 31, 2009, $4 million of commodity forward contracts were outstanding. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at 33 table of contents part ii, item 7a december 31, 2009, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $4.2 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $1.3 billion. schlumberger has entered into interest rate swaps relating to $1.1 billion of its fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2009 whereby schlumberger will receive interest at a fixed rate and pay interest at a variable rate. schlumberger exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. both short-term investments and fixed income investments , held to maturity , which totaled approximately $5.1 billion at december 31, 2009, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in us dollars. the average return on investment was 1.4% in 2009. the following table represents principal amounts of schlumberger debt at december 31, 2009 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) expected maturity dates 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 total fixed rate debt 2.125% series b convertible debentures $ 321 $ 321 5.14% guaranteed notes 238 238 5.875% guaranteed bonds $ 362 362 6.5% notes $ 649 649 5.25% guaranteed bonds $ 727 727 3.00% guaranteed notes 449 449 4.50% guaranteed bonds $ 1,449 1,449 total fixed rate debt $ 559 $ 362 $ 649 $ 1,176 $ 1,449 $ 4,195 variable rate debt $ 567 $ 294 $ 375 $ 20 $ 29 $ 1,285 total $ 1,126 $ 656 $ 1,024 $ 1,196 $ 1,478 $ 5,480 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $4.6 billion as of december 31, 2009. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2009 was approximately 1.7%. schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. forward-looking statements this form 10-k and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of oilfield services and westerngeco (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and gas prices; operating margins; capital expenditures by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger customers; future global economic conditions expected pension and post-retirement funding; expected stock compensation costs; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the current global economic downturn; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing erosion; seasonal factors; and other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this form 10-k, including under item 1a. risk factors . if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 34 table of contents part ii, item 8risk factors 7 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors may be important information in understanding our forward-looking statements, which are discussed immediately following item 7a. of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: 7 table of contents demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 68% of our consolidated revenue in 2011, 76% in 2010 and 84% in 2009. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, sudan and cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. united states law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in certain of these countries. additionally, in 2009 prior to being acquired by schlumberger, smith received an administrative subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in certain countries that are subject to united states trade and economic sanctions. if any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 8 table of contents our offshore oil and gas operations could be adversely impacted by the deepwater horizon drilling rig accident as resulting changes in and compliance with restrictions or regulations on offshore drilling in the us gulf of mexico and in other areas around the world may adversely affect our business and operating results. on april 20, 2010, a fire and explosion occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig deepwater horizon , owned by transocean ltd. and under contract to a subsidiary of bp plc. as a result of the incident and related oil spill, the secretary of the us department of the interior directed the bureau of ocean energy management, regulation and enforcement ( boemre ) to issue a suspension, of deepwater drilling activities, which was lifted on october 12, 2010. in october 2010, boemre, now split into the bureau of ocean energy management and the bureau of safety and environmental enforcement, issued new guidelines and regulations regarding safety, environmental matters, drilling equipment and decommissioning applicable to drilling in the us gulf of mexico, and may take other additional steps that could result in permitting delays, increased costs of exploration and production and reduced areas of operations which could reduce the demand for our services. at this time, we cannot predict with any certainty what further impact, if any, the deepwater horizon incident may have on the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, or on the cost or availability of insurance coverage to cover the risks of such operations. the enactment of new or stricter regulations in the united states and other countries where we operate could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations are such that we are exposed to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 table of contents demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law. international, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas emissions. such legislation, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or to promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. international, national and state governments and agencies are also currently evaluating and promulgating legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas using hydraulic fracturing. such legislation or regulations could lead to operational delays and increased costs and, therefore, reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if additional international, national or state legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: 7 table of contents demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 68% of our consolidated revenue in 2011, 76% in 2010 and 84% in 2009. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, sudan and cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. united states law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in certain of these countries. additionally, in 2009 prior to being acquired by schlumberger, smith received an administrative subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in certain countries that are subject to united states trade and economic sanctions. if any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 8 table of contents our offshore oil and gas operations could be adversely impacted by the deepwater horizon drilling rig accident as resulting changes in and compliance with restrictions or regulations on offshore drilling in the us gulf of mexico and in other areas around the world may adversely affect our business and operating results. on april 20, 2010, a fire and explosion occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig deepwater horizon , owned by transocean ltd. and under contract to a subsidiary of bp plc. as a result of the incident and related oil spill, the secretary of the us department of the interior directed the bureau of ocean energy management, regulation and enforcement ( boemre ) to issue a suspension, of deepwater drilling activities, which was lifted on october 12, 2010. in october 2010, boemre, now split into the bureau of ocean energy management and the bureau of safety and environmental enforcement, issued new guidelines and regulations regarding safety, environmental matters, drilling equipment and decommissioning applicable to drilling in the us gulf of mexico, and may take other additional steps that could result in permitting delays, increased costs of exploration and production and reduced areas of operations which could reduce the demand for our services. at this time, we cannot predict with any certainty what further impact, if any, the deepwater horizon incident may have on the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, or on the cost or availability of insurance coverage to cover the risks of such operations. the enactment of new or stricter regulations in the united states and other countries where we operate could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations are such that we are exposed to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 table of contents demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law. international, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas emissions. such legislation, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or to promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. international, national and state governments and agencies are also currently evaluating and promulgating legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas using hydraulic fracturing. such legislation or regulations could lead to operational delays and increased costs and, therefore, reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if additional international, national or state legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 table of contents item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing centers as its principal owned or leased facilities. the following sets forth schlumberger principal owned or leased facilities by business segment: oilfield services : beijing, china; clamart and abbeville, france; mumbai, india; fuchinobe, japan; oslo and dusavik, norway; singapore; abingdon, cambridge, gatwick and stonehouse, united kingdom; moscow, russia; and within the united states: boston, massachusetts; houston, rosharon and sugar land, texas; ponca city, oklahoma; lawrence, kansas; battle mountain, nevada; greybull, wyoming and florence, kentucky. distribution : edmonton, canada; and within the united states: laporte, texas; long beach, california; and south plainfield, new jersey. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to item 3. legal proceedings is set forth in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. mine safety disclosures. the barite and bentonite mining operations of m-i llc, which, following our acquisition of smith, became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, are subject to regulation by the federal mine safety and health administration under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and item 104 of regulation s-k is included in exhibit 95 to this report. 11 table of contents part ii item 5. market for schlumberger common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of december 31, 2011, there were approximately 23,719 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger common stock is the nyse, where it is traded under the symbol slb, although it is traded on other exchanges in and outside the united states, including the euronext paris, the london stock exchange and the six swiss exchange. common stock, market prices and dividends declared per share quarterly high and low prices for schlumberger common stock as reported by the nyse (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2011 and 2010, were: price range dividends declared high low 2011 quarters first $ 95.64 $ 79.74 $ 0.25 second 95.00 79.55 0.25 third 95.53 58.77 0.25 fourth 77.65 54.79 0.25 2010 quarters first $ 72.00 $ 59.42 $ 0.21 second 73.99 51.67 0.21 third 63.72 52.91 0.21 fourth 84.11 60.57 0.21 on january 19, 2012, schlumberger announced that its board of directors had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of 10%, to $0.275. there are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any cura&ccedil;ao withholding or other cura&ccedil;ao taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares. the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the standard &amp; poor 500 index (s&amp;p 500 index) and the cumulative total return on the philadelphia oil service index (osx) over the five-year period ended december 31, 2011. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. 12 table of contents comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index and the philadelphia oil service index (osx) assumes $100 invested on december 31, 2006 in schlumberger common stock, in the s&amp;p 500 index and in the philadelphia oil service index (osx) and reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment. share repurchases on april 17, 2008, the schlumberger board of directors approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock, to be acquired in the open market before december 31, 2011. on july 21, 2011, the board approved an extension of this repurchase program to december 31, 2013. schlumberger common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 2011 was as follows: (stated in thousands, except per share amounts) total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program maximum value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program october 1 through october 31, 2011 3,286.0 $ 64.91 3,286.0 $ 2,273,344 november 1 through november 30, 2011 2,852.3 $ 73.04 2,852.3 $ 2,065,022 december 1 through december 31, 2011 3,015.0 $ 70.90 3,015.0 $ 1,851,255 9,153.3 $ 69.42 9,153.3 in connection with the exercise of stock options under schlumberger incentive compensation plans, schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. schlumberger does not view these transactions as requiring disclosure under this item 5. as the number of shares of schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not material. unregistered sales of equity securities none. 13 table of contents item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger conducts business in approximately 85 countries. schlumberger functional currency is primarily the us dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. approximately 75% of schlumberger revenue in 2011 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. a 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2011 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. if the 2011 average exchange rates of the us dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, schlumberger income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 2%. conversely, a 5% weakening of the us dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 2%. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses. at december 31, 2011, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $6.9 billion in various foreign currencies of which $3.9 billion relate to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. schlumberger is subject to the risk of market price fluctuations of certain commodities, such as metals and fuel. schlumberger utilizes forward contracts to manage a small percentage of the price risk associated with forecasted metal purchases. as of december 31, 2011, $27 million of commodity forward contracts were outstanding. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2011, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $8.0 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $1.9 billion. schlumberger has entered into interest rate swaps relating to $0.5 billion of its fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2011 whereby schlumberger will receive interest at a fixed rate and pay interest at a variable rate. schlumberger exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. both short-term investments and fixed income investments , held to maturity , which totaled approximately $3.4 billion at december 31, 2011, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in us dollars. the average return on investment was 1.1% in 2011. the following table represents carrying amounts of schlumberger debt at december 31, 2011 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) expected maturity dates 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2021 total fixed rate debt 5.25% guaranteed notes $ 649 $ 649 3.00% guaranteed notes 458 458 2.75% guaranteed notes $ 1,290 1,290 4.50% guaranteed notes $ 1,297 1,297 2.650% senior notes $ 498 498 1.950% senior notes 1,099 1,099 3.300% senior notes $ 1,595 1,595 4.200% senior notes 1,099 1,099 total fixed rate debt $ $ 1,107 $ 1,290 $ 1,297 $ 1,597 $ 2,694 $ 7,985 variable rate debt 1,377 62 314 195 1,948 total $ 1,377 $ 1,169 $ 1,604 $ 1,297 $ 1,792 $ 2,694 $ 9,933 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $8.4 billion as of december 31, 2011. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2011 was approximately 2.80%. schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. 31 table of contents forward-looking statements this form 10-k and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of its segments (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger customers; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, current global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic, political and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing erosion; weather and seasonal factors; the ability to respond to increased activity levels; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; continuing operational delays or program reductions as a result of the lifted drilling moratorium in the gulf of mexico; inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the risk factors section of this form 10-k and other filings that we make with the securities and exchange commission. if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 32 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors are important information in understanding our forward-looking statements, which are discussed immediately following item 7a. of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; 7 governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 72% of our consolidated revenue in 2012, 71% in 2011 and 78% in 2010. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, north sudan and cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. united states law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in certain of these countries. additionally, in 2009 prior to being acquired by schlumberger, smith international, inc. received an administrative subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in certain countries that are subject to united states trade and economic sanctions. if any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. during 2012, certain non-u.s. subsidiaries of schlumberger provided oilfield services to the national iranian oil company and certain of its affiliates ( nioc ). schlumberger has not bid on any new contracts relating to iran petroleum production since march 2009. schlumberger full-year 2012 revenue attributable to this activity was $418 million, which resulted in net income of $208 million in its consolidated financial statements. schlumberger intends to discontinue such activity in iran in 2013 and is currently winding down its operations there. in this regard, during the fourth quarter of 2012, schlumberger recorded revenue relating to this activity in iran of $92 million and net income of $48 million in its consolidated financial statements. this activity included obtaining services from and engaging in other dealings with the government of iran that are incidental to operating in iran, and the expenses of which are reflected in the net income disclosed above. these services and other dealings consisted of paying taxes, duties, license fees and other typical governmental charges, along with payments for utilities, transportation, hotel accommodations, facility rentals, 8 telecommunications services, newspaper advertisements, recreational and fitness memberships, and the purchase of routine office and similar supplies from entities associated with the government of iran. collections of amounts owed to schlumberger were received in part by depository accounts held by two non-u.s. subsidiaries of schlumberger at a branch of bank saderat iran ( saderat ), and in part by a depositary account held by one of such non-u.s. subsidiaries at bank tejarat ( tejarat ) in tehran. the accounts at saderat are maintained solely for the deposit by nioc of amounts owed to non-u.s. subsidiaries of schlumberger. the account at tejarat is maintained also for payment of expenses in connection with operating in iran, such as payroll expenses, rental payments and taxes. in addition, nioc maintains bank accounts at bank melli iran ( melli ) through which it made payments to a non-u.s. subsidiary of schlumberger for services provided in iran under letters of credit issued by melli. schlumberger maintains no bank accounts at melli. schlumberger will discontinue its dealings with melli, saderat and tejarat following the receipt of all amounts owed to schlumberger for services in iran. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations are such that we are exposed to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law. some international, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas emissions. such legislation, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or to promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national and state governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, 9 causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could lead to operational delays and increased costs and, therefore, reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national or state legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; 7 governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 72% of our consolidated revenue in 2012, 71% in 2011 and 78% in 2010. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including iran, syria, north sudan and cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. united states law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in certain of these countries. additionally, in 2009 prior to being acquired by schlumberger, smith international, inc. received an administrative subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in certain countries that are subject to united states trade and economic sanctions. if any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. during 2012, certain non-u.s. subsidiaries of schlumberger provided oilfield services to the national iranian oil company and certain of its affiliates ( nioc ). schlumberger has not bid on any new contracts relating to iran petroleum production since march 2009. schlumberger full-year 2012 revenue attributable to this activity was $418 million, which resulted in net income of $208 million in its consolidated financial statements. schlumberger intends to discontinue such activity in iran in 2013 and is currently winding down its operations there. in this regard, during the fourth quarter of 2012, schlumberger recorded revenue relating to this activity in iran of $92 million and net income of $48 million in its consolidated financial statements. this activity included obtaining services from and engaging in other dealings with the government of iran that are incidental to operating in iran, and the expenses of which are reflected in the net income disclosed above. these services and other dealings consisted of paying taxes, duties, license fees and other typical governmental charges, along with payments for utilities, transportation, hotel accommodations, facility rentals, 8 telecommunications services, newspaper advertisements, recreational and fitness memberships, and the purchase of routine office and similar supplies from entities associated with the government of iran. collections of amounts owed to schlumberger were received in part by depository accounts held by two non-u.s. subsidiaries of schlumberger at a branch of bank saderat iran ( saderat ), and in part by a depositary account held by one of such non-u.s. subsidiaries at bank tejarat ( tejarat ) in tehran. the accounts at saderat are maintained solely for the deposit by nioc of amounts owed to non-u.s. subsidiaries of schlumberger. the account at tejarat is maintained also for payment of expenses in connection with operating in iran, such as payroll expenses, rental payments and taxes. in addition, nioc maintains bank accounts at bank melli iran ( melli ) through which it made payments to a non-u.s. subsidiary of schlumberger for services provided in iran under letters of credit issued by melli. schlumberger maintains no bank accounts at melli. schlumberger will discontinue its dealings with melli, saderat and tejarat following the receipt of all amounts owed to schlumberger for services in iran. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations are such that we are exposed to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law. some international, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas emissions. such legislation, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or to promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national and state governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, 9 causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could lead to operational delays and increased costs and, therefore, reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national or state legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. item 1b. unres olved staff comments. none. ite m 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing centers as its principal owned or leased facilities. 10 the following sets forth schlumberger principal owned or leased facilities: beijing, china; clamart, france; mumbai, india; fuchinobe, japan; oslo, norway; singapore; abingdon, cambridge and stonehouse, united kingdom; moscow, russia; and within the united states: boston, massachusetts; houston, rosharon and sugar land, texas; battle mountain, nevada; greybull, wyoming and florence, kentucky. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to item 3. legal proceedings is set forth in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. mine safety disclosures. the barite and bentonite mining operations of m-i llc, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, are subject to regulation by the federal mine safety and health administration under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and item 104 of regulation s-k is included in exhibit 95 to this form 10-k. 11 part ii item 5. market for schlumberger common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of december 31, 2012, there were approximately 22,455 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger common stock is the nyse, where it is traded under the symbol slb, although it is traded on other exchanges in and outside the united states, including the euronext paris, the london stock exchange and the six swiss exchange. common stock, market prices and dividends declared per share quarterly high and low prices for schlumberger common stock as reported by the nyse (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2012 and 2011, were: price range dividends declared high low 2012 quarters first $ 80.78 $ 67.12 $ 0.275 second 76.19 59.12 0.275 third 78.47 64.19 0.275 fourth 75.70 66.85 0.275 2011 quarters first $ 95.64 $ 79.74 $ 0.25 second 95.00 79.55 0.25 third 95.53 58.77 0.25 fourth 77.65 54.79 0.25 on january 17, 2013, schlumberger announced that its board of directors had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of 13.6%, to $0.3125. there are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any cura&ccedil;ao withholding or other cura&ccedil;ao taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares. the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the standard &amp; poor 500 index (s&amp;p 500 index) and the cumulative total return on the philadelphia oil service index (osx) over the five-year period ended december 31, 2012. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. 12 comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index and the philadelphia oil service index (osx) assumes $100 invested on december 31, 2007 in schlumberger common stock, in the s&amp;p 500 index and in the philadelphia oil service index (osx) and reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment. share repurchases on april 17, 2008, the schlumberger board of directors approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock, to be acquired in the open market before december 31, 2011. on july 21, 2011, the board of directors approved an extension of this repurchase program to december 31, 2013. schlumberger did not repurchase any common stock during the three months ended december 31, 2012. the maximum value of shares that may be purchased under this program as of december 31, 2012 was $879 million. in connection with the exercise of stock options under schlumberger incentive compensation plans, schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. schlumberger does not view these transactions as requiring disclosure under this item 5 as the number of shares of schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not material. unregistered sales of equity securities as discussed in note 13 of the consolidated financial statements , schlumberger maintains a discounted stock purchase plan (the dspp ), which was established in 1988. the dspp provides for two purchase periods each calendar year: january 1 to june 30 and july 1 to december 31. schlumberger filed registration statements with the sec to register the shares initially available for purchase under the dspp as well as to register additional shares that were approved by schlumberger stockholders in 2005. in 2010, schlumberger stockholders approved an amendment to the dspp that, among other things, increased the number of shares available for purchase under the dspp by 10,000,000 shares. in december 2012, schlumberger discovered that it had inadvertently failed to file a registration statement with the sec to register the additional dspp shares approved in 2010. in december 2012, schlumberger registered the sale of the shares that remain available for purchase under the dspp. prior to such registration, however, some of the shares schlumberger sold under the dspp were unregistered. with respect to the six-month 13 purchase period ending june 30, 2012, 2,197,151 unregistered shares were sold at a discounted purchase price of $59.89 per share, resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $132 million. the company believes that it has historically provided participants in the dspp with the same information they would have received had the registration statement been filed. nonetheless, original purchasers of the unregistered shares may have rescission rights with respect to the shares purchased by them with respect to the six-month purchase period ended june 30, 2012. schlumberger believes that any liability resulting from a potential rescission would be immaterial, particularly in light of the fact that the market price of schlumberger common stock has exceeded the participants discounted purchase price since the date of purchase. item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger conducts business in approximately 85 countries. schlumberger functional currency is primarily the us dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. approximately 75% of schlumberger revenue in 2012 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. a 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2012 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. if the 2012 average exchange rates of the us dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, schlumberger income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 2%. conversely, a 5% weakening of the us dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 2%. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses. at december 31, 2012, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $7.5 billion in various foreign currencies of which $3.9 billion relate to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. schlumberger is subject to the risk of market price fluctuations of certain commodities, such as fuel. schlumberger utilizes forward contracts to manage a small percentage of the price risk associated with forecasted fuel purchases. as of december 31, 2012, $43 million of commodity forward contracts were outstanding. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2012, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $10.0 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $1.6 billion. schlumberger has entered into interest rate swaps relating to $0.5 billion of its fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2012 whereby schlumberger will receive interest at a fixed rate and pay interest at a variable rate. schlumberger exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. both short-term investments and fixed income investments , held to maturity , which totaled approximately $4.6 billion at december 31, 2012, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in us dollars. the average return on investment was 0.6% in 2012. the following table represents carrying amounts of schlumberger debt at december 31, 2012 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) expected maturity dates 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2021 2022 total fixed rate debt 5.25% guaranteed notes $ 662 $ 662 3.00% guaranteed notes 452 452 4.50% guaranteed notes $ 1,324 1,324 2.75% guaranteed notes $ 1,318 1,318 2.650% senior notes $ 500 500 1.950% senior notes 1,099 1,099 3.300% senior notes $ 1,595 1,595 4.200% senior notes 1,099 1,099 1.250% senior notes $ 999 999 2.400% senior notes $ 998 998 total fixed rate debt $ 1,114 $ 1,324 $ 1,318 $ 1,599 $ 999 $ 2,694 $ 998 $ 10,046 variable rate debt 1,007 333 244 1,584 total $ 2,121 $ 1,657 $ 1,318 $ 1,843 $ 999 $ 2,694 $ 998 $ 11,630 31 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $10.5 billion as of december 31, 2012. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2012 was 3.6%. schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. forward-looking statements this form 10-k and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of its segments (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger customers; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic, political and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing erosion; weather and seasonal factors; operational delays; production declines; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the risk factors section of this form 10-k and other filings that we make with the securities and exchange commission. if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 32risk factors 7 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains important information for the understanding our forward-looking statements, which are discussed immediately following item 7a. of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry's view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 73% of our consolidated revenue in 2013, 72% in 2012 and 71% in 2011. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; 7 currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including sudan and cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. united states law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our historical operations in countries that are subject to united states trade and economic sanctions. if any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. during 2013, certain non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger provided oilfield services to the national iranian oil company and certain of its affiliates ( nioc ). schlumberger's 2013 revenue attributable to this activity was $102 million, which resulted in a net loss of $69 million. during the second quarter of 2013, schlumberger completed the wind down of its service operations in iran. as a result, schlumberger has reclassified the results of this business as a discontinued operation. all prior periods have been restated accordingly. schlumberger's activity in iran during 2013 included obtaining services from and engaging in other dealings with the government of iran that were incidental to operating in iran, and the expenses of which are reflected in the results disclosed above. these services and other dealings consisted of paying taxes, duties, license fees and other typical governmental charges, along with payments for utilities, transportation, hotel accommodations, facility rentals, telecommunications services, newspaper advertisements, recreational and fitness memberships, and the purchase of routine office and similar supplies from entities associated with the government of iran. collections of amounts owed to schlumberger for services rendered in iran were received in part by depository accounts held by two non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger at a branch of bank saderat iran ( saderat ), and in part by a depositary account held by one of such non-us subsidiaries at bank tejarat ( tejarat ) in tehran. the accounts at tejarat are also used in connection with payment of expenses incidental to collection of amounts owed to schlumberger for prior services. the accounts at saderat are maintained solely for the deposit by nioc of amounts owed to non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger for prior services. one of the non-us subsidiaries also maintained a depository account at bank sarmayeh ( sarmayeh ) which, together with the account at tejarat, was maintained for the payment of expenses such as payroll expenses, rental payments and taxes. in addition, nioc maintained bank accounts at bank melli iran ( melli ) through which it made payments to a non-us subsidiary of schlumberger for services provided in iran under letters of credit issued by melli. schlumberger maintains no bank accounts at melli. schlumberger has discontinued dealings with melli and sarmayeh, and anticipates that it will discontinue its dealings with saderat and tejarat following the receipt of all amounts owed to schlumberger for prior services rendered in iran. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. 8 we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations are such that we are exposed to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law. some international, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas emissions. such legislation, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or to promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national and state governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could lead to operational delays and increased costs and, therefore, reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national or state legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry's view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 73% of our consolidated revenue in 2013, 72% in 2012 and 71% in 2011. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; 7 currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including sudan and cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states or other governments or organizations. united states law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our historical operations in countries that are subject to united states trade and economic sanctions. if any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain us state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. during 2013, certain non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger provided oilfield services to the national iranian oil company and certain of its affiliates ( nioc ). schlumberger's 2013 revenue attributable to this activity was $102 million, which resulted in a net loss of $69 million. during the second quarter of 2013, schlumberger completed the wind down of its service operations in iran. as a result, schlumberger has reclassified the results of this business as a discontinued operation. all prior periods have been restated accordingly. schlumberger's activity in iran during 2013 included obtaining services from and engaging in other dealings with the government of iran that were incidental to operating in iran, and the expenses of which are reflected in the results disclosed above. these services and other dealings consisted of paying taxes, duties, license fees and other typical governmental charges, along with payments for utilities, transportation, hotel accommodations, facility rentals, telecommunications services, newspaper advertisements, recreational and fitness memberships, and the purchase of routine office and similar supplies from entities associated with the government of iran. collections of amounts owed to schlumberger for services rendered in iran were received in part by depository accounts held by two non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger at a branch of bank saderat iran ( saderat ), and in part by a depositary account held by one of such non-us subsidiaries at bank tejarat ( tejarat ) in tehran. the accounts at tejarat are also used in connection with payment of expenses incidental to collection of amounts owed to schlumberger for prior services. the accounts at saderat are maintained solely for the deposit by nioc of amounts owed to non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger for prior services. one of the non-us subsidiaries also maintained a depository account at bank sarmayeh ( sarmayeh ) which, together with the account at tejarat, was maintained for the payment of expenses such as payroll expenses, rental payments and taxes. in addition, nioc maintained bank accounts at bank melli iran ( melli ) through which it made payments to a non-us subsidiary of schlumberger for services provided in iran under letters of credit issued by melli. schlumberger maintains no bank accounts at melli. schlumberger has discontinued dealings with melli and sarmayeh, and anticipates that it will discontinue its dealings with saderat and tejarat following the receipt of all amounts owed to schlumberger for prior services rendered in iran. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. 8 we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations are such that we are exposed to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law. some international, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas emissions. such legislation, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or to promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national and state governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could lead to operational delays and increased costs and, therefore, reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national or state legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing centers as its principal owned or leased facilities. the following sets forth schlumberger's principal owned or leased facilities: beijing, china; clamart, france; mumbai, india; fuchinobe, japan; oslo, norway; singapore; abingdon, cambridge and stonehouse, united kingdom; moscow, russia; and within the united states: boston, massachusetts; houston, rosharon and sugar land, texas; battle mountain, nevada; greybull, wyoming and florence, kentucky. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to this item 3. legal proceedings is set forth in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. mine safety disclosures. the barite and bentonite mining operations of m-i llc, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, are subject to regulation by the federal mine safety and health administration under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and item 104 of regulation s-k is included in exhibit 95 to this form 10-k. 10 part ii item 5. market for schlumberger's common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of december 31, 2013, there were 21,929 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger's common stock is the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), where it is traded under the symbol slb, although it is traded on other exchanges in and outside the united states, including the euronext paris, the london stock exchange and the six swiss exchange. common stock, market prices and dividends declared per share quarterly high and low prices for schlumberger's common stock as reported by the nyse (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2013 and 2012, were: price range dividends declared high low 2013 quarters first $ 82.00 $ 70.12 $ 0.3125 second 77.84 69.08 0.3125 third 89.72 71.84 0.3125 fourth 94.91 84.91 0.3125 2012 quarters first $ 80.78 $ 67.12 $ 0.2750 second 76.19 59.12 0.2750 third 78.47 64.19 0.2750 fourth 75.70 66.85 0.2750 on january 16, 2014, schlumberger announced that its board of directors had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of 28%, to $0.40. there are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any cura ao withholding or other cura ao taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares. the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the standard &amp; poor's 500 index (s&amp;p 500 index) and the cumulative total return on the philadelphia oil service index (osx) over the five-year period ended december 31, 2013. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. 11 comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index and the philadelphia oil service index (osx) assumes $100 invested on december 31, 2008 in schlumberger common stock, in the s&amp;p 500 index and in the philadelphia oil service index (osx) and reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment. share repurchases on july 18, 2013, the schlumberger board of directors approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock, to be completed at the latest by june 30, 2018. schlumberger's common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 2013 was as follows: (stated in thousands, except per share amounts) total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program maximum value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program october 1 through october 31, 2013 5,750.2 $ 90.07 5,750.2 $ 8,835,695 november 1 through november 30, 2013 2,372.9 $ 92.60 2,372.9 $ 8,615,977 december 1 through december 31, 2013 3,817.8 $ 87.24 3,817.8 $ 8,282,925 11,940.9 $ 89.67 11,940.9 in connection with the exercise of stock options under schlumberger's incentive compensation plans, schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. schlumberger does not view these transactions as requiring disclosure under this item 5 as the number of shares of schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not material. unregistered sales of equity securities none. 12 item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger conducts business in approximately 85 countries. schlumberger's functional currency is primarily the us dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. approximately 78% of schlumberger's revenue in 2013 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger's expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. a 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2013 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. if the 2013 average exchange rates of the us dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, schlumberger's income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 2%. conversely, a 5% weakening of the us dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 2%. in late january 2014, venezuela announced the establishment of a dual exchange rate system. a rate of 6.3 venezuelan bolivares fuertes to the us dollar will be applied to priority sectors, such as food and medicine, while other sectors of the economy will apply an exchange rate determined based on the results of the venezuelan central bank's system of weekly currency auctions. schlumberger is in the process of analyzing the impact, if any, of this change on its 2014 consolidated financial statements. although the functional currency of schlumberger's operations in venezuela is the us dollar, a portion of the transactions are denominated in venezuelan bolivares fuertes. for financial reporting purposes, such local currency transactions are remeasured into us dollars at the official exchange rate which was fixed at 6.3 venezuelan bolivares fuertes to the us dollar for most of 2013. at december 31, 2013, schlumberger had approximately $330 million of net monetary assets denominated in venezuelan bolivares fuertes. depending on the exchange rate schlumberger is required to apply, it may incur a charge to its income statement in the first 28 quarter of 2014. for example, if schlumberger was required to apply an exchange rate of 11.3 venezuelan bolivares fuertes to the us dollar (the rate per the auction system at january 24, 2014), it would result in a charge of approximately $150 million. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses. at december 31, 2013, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $7.6 billion in various foreign currencies of which $3.8 billion relate to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and, from time to time, interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2013, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $11.2 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $1.9 billion before considering the effects of cross currency and interest rate swaps. schlumberger's exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. both short-term investments and fixed income investments , held to maturity , which totaled approximately $5.3 billion at december 31, 2013, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in us dollars. the average return on investment was 0.5% in 2013. the following table represents carrying amounts of schlumberger's debt at december 31, 2013 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) expected maturity dates 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 2022 2023 total fixed rate debt 4.50% guaranteed notes $ 1,377 $ 1,377 2.75% guaranteed notes $ 1,373 1,373 2.65% senior notes $ 500 500 1.95% senior notes 1,099 1,099 1.25% senior notes $ 999 999 1.50% guaranteed notes $ 697 697 3.30% senior notes $ 1,596 1,596 4.20% senior notes 1,099 1,099 2.40% senior notes $ 999 999 3.65% senior notes $ 1,495 1,495 total fixed rate debt $ 1,377 $ 1,373 $ 1,599 $ 999 $ 697 $ 2,695 $ 999 $ 1,495 $ 11,234 variable rate debt 1,406 4 21 $ 511 1,942 total $ 2,783 $ 1,377 $ 1,620 $ 999 $ 511 $ 697 $ 2,695 $ 999 $ 1,495 $ 13,176 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $11.3 billion as of december 31, 2013. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2013 was 2.8%. schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. forward-looking statements this form 10-k and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of its segments (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger's customers; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger's customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic, political and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing erosion; weather and seasonal factors; operational delays; production declines; changes in government regulations and 29 regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the risk factors section of this form 10-k and other filings that we make with the securities and exchange commission. if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 30risk factors 7 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors known to us contains important information for the understanding of our forward-looking statements, which are discussed immediately following item 7a. of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry's view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 71% of our consolidated revenue in 2014, 73% in 2013 and 72% in 2012. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the european union, the united states or other countries; 7 restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. during the fourth quarter of 2014, schlumberger completed the wind down of its operations in the republic of sudan. as previously disclosed, during the second quarter of 2013, schlumberger completed the wind down of its service operations in iran. prior to this, certain non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger provided oilfield services to the national iranian oil company and certain of its affiliates ( nioc ). schlumberger has reclassified the results of this business as a discontinued operation. all prior periods have been restated accordingly. schlumberger's residual transactions or dealings with the government of iran during 2014 consisted of payments of taxes and other typical governmental charges. two non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger maintained depository accounts at the dubai branch of bank saderat iran ( saderat ), and at bank tejarat ( tejarat ) in tehran for the deposit by nioc of amounts owed to non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger for prior services rendered in iran. one non-us subsidiary also maintains an account at tejarat for payment of local expenses such as taxes and utilities. schlumberger anticipates that it will discontinue its dealings with saderat and tejarat following the receipt of all amounts owed to schlumberger for prior services rendered in iran. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law. 8 existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cyber attacks could affect our business. if our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks are circumvented or breached, this could result in the loss of our intellectual property or other proprietary information, including customer data, and disruption of our business operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27 of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry's view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 71% of our consolidated revenue in 2014, 73% in 2013 and 72% in 2012. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: political and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the european union, the united states or other countries; 7 restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. during the fourth quarter of 2014, schlumberger completed the wind down of its operations in the republic of sudan. as previously disclosed, during the second quarter of 2013, schlumberger completed the wind down of its service operations in iran. prior to this, certain non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger provided oilfield services to the national iranian oil company and certain of its affiliates ( nioc ). schlumberger has reclassified the results of this business as a discontinued operation. all prior periods have been restated accordingly. schlumberger's residual transactions or dealings with the government of iran during 2014 consisted of payments of taxes and other typical governmental charges. two non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger maintained depository accounts at the dubai branch of bank saderat iran ( saderat ), and at bank tejarat ( tejarat ) in tehran for the deposit by nioc of amounts owed to non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger for prior services rendered in iran. one non-us subsidiary also maintains an account at tejarat for payment of local expenses such as taxes and utilities. schlumberger anticipates that it will discontinue its dealings with saderat and tejarat following the receipt of all amounts owed to schlumberger for prior services rendered in iran. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law. 8 existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cyber attacks could affect our business. if our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks are circumvented or breached, this could result in the loss of our intellectual property or other proprietary information, including customer data, and disruption of our business operations. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing centers as its principal owned or leased facilities. 9 the following sets forth schlumberger's principal owned or leased facilities: beijing, china; clamart, france; mumbai, india; fuchinobe, japan; oslo and stavanger, norway; singapore; abingdon, cambridge, gatwick and stonehouse, united kingdom; moscow, russia; and within the united states: boston, massachusetts; houston, katy, rosharon and sugar land, texas; battle mountain, nevada; greybull, wyoming and florence, kentucky. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to this item 3. legal proceedings is set forth in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. mine safety disclosures. the barite and bentonite mining operations of m-i llc, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, are subject to regulation by the federal mine safety and health administration under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and item 104 of regulation s-k is included in exhibit 95 to this form 10-k. 10 part ii item 5. market for schlumberger's common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of december 31, 2014, there were 21,348 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger's common stock is the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), where it is traded under the symbol slb, although it is traded on other exchanges in and outside the united states, including the euronext paris, the london stock exchange and the six swiss exchange. common stock, market prices and dividends declared per share quarterly high and low prices for schlumberger's common stock as reported by the nyse (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2014 and 2013, were as follows: price range dividends declared high low 2014 quarters first $ 98.45 $ 85.77 $ 0.4000 second 118.13 96.66 0.4000 third 118.76 100.30 0.4000 fourth 102.40 78.47 0.4000 2013 quarters first $ 82.00 $ 70.12 $ 0.3125 second 77.84 69.08 0.3125 third 89.72 71.84 0.3125 fourth 94.91 84.91 0.3125 there are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any cura ao withholding or other cura ao taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares. the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the standard &amp; poor's 500 index (s&amp;p 500 index) and the cumulative total return on the philadelphia oil service index (osx) over the five-year period ended december 31, 2014. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. 11 comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index and the philadelphia oil service index (osx) assumes $100 invested on december 31, 2009 in schlumberger common stock, in the s&amp;p 500 index and in the philadelphia oil service index (osx) and reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment. share repurchases on july 18, 2013, the schlumberger board of directors approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock, to be completed at the latest by june 30, 2018. schlumberger is accelerating this share repurchase program with the aim of completing it in 2.5 years as compared to the original target of 5 years. schlumberger's common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 2014 was as follows: (stated in thousands, except per share amounts) total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program maximum value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program october 1 through october 31, 2014 3,720.5 $ 95.68 3,720.5 $ 4,344,679 november 1 through november 30, 2014 2,529.6 $ 96.52 2,529.6 $ 4,100,530 december 1 through december 31, 2014 5,891.7 $ 84.07 5,891.7 $ 3,605,238 12,141.8 $ 90.22 12,141.8 in connection with the exercise of stock options under schlumberger's incentive compensation plans, schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. schlumberger does not view these transactions as requiring disclosure under this item 5 as the number of shares of schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not material. 12 unregistered sales of equity securities none. item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger conducts business in approximately 85 countries. schlumberger's functional currency is primarily the us dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. approximately 81% of schlumberger's revenue in 2014 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger's expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. 27 a 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2014 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. if the 2014 average exchange rates of the us dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, schlumberger's income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 3%. conversely, a 5% weakening of the us dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 3%. please refer to note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of exchange rates as it relates to schlumberger's operations in venezuela. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses. at december 31, 2014, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $6.8 billion in various foreign currencies of which $2.5 billion relate to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and occasionally interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2014, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $9.6 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $3.7 billion before considering the effects of cross currency swaps. schlumberger's exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. both short-term investments and fixed income investments , held to maturity , which totaled approximately $4.8 billion at december 31, 2014, are comprised primarily of money market funds, time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, bonds and notes, substantially all of which are denominated in us dollars. the average return on investment was 0.7% in 2014. the following table represents carrying amounts of schlumberger's debt at december 31, 2014 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) expected maturity dates fixed rate debt 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 2022 2023 total 3.30% senior notes $ 1,597 $ 1,597 3.65% senior notes $ 1,495 1,495 2.75% guaranteed notes $ 1,218 1,218 1.95% senior notes $ 1,100 1,100 4.20% senior notes 1,100 1,100 1.25% senior notes $ 1,000 1,000 2.40% senior notes $ 999 999 1.50% guaranteed notes $ 628 628 2.65% senior notes 500 500 total fixed rate debt $ 1,218 $ 1,600 $ 1,000 $ $ 628 $ 2,697 $ 999 $ 1,495 $ 9,637 variable rate debt 1,547 37 28 1,866 215 3,693 total $ 2,765 $ 1,637 $ 1,028 $ 1,866 $ 843 $ 2,697 $ 999 $ 1,495 $ 13,330 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $9.8 billion as of december 31, 2014. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2014 was 1.3%. schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. forward-looking statements this form 10-k and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of its segments (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger's customers; the success of schlumberger's joint ventures, alliances, acquisitions and restructuring efforts; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger's customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic, political and business conditions in key regions of the world, including in russia and 28 the ukraine; pricing erosion; weather and seasonal factors; operational delays; production declines; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services, technology and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the risk factors section of this form 10-k and other filings that we make with the securities and exchange commission. if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 29risk factors 7 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors known to us contains important information for the understanding of our forward-looking statements, which are discussed immediately following item 7a. of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. the current significant oil and gas industry downturn has resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services, which has had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if these conditions worsen or oil and gas prices do not improve, further reductions in spending by the oil and gas industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry's view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. since 2014, oil and gas prices have declined significantly, resulting in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry. as a result, many of our customers have reduced or delayed their oil and gas exploration and production spending, reducing the demand for our services and exerting downward pressure on the prices that we charge. these conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial condition. continued low oil and gas prices or a further decline in oil and gas prices could cause a reduction in cash flows for our customers, which could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of our customers. this could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas will follow historic patterns or recover in the near term. continued or worsening conditions in the oil and gas industry could further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 76% of our consolidated revenue in 2015, 71% in 2014 and 73% in 2013. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: volatility in political, social and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the european union, the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. we completed the wind down of our service operations in iran during the second quarter of 2013. prior to this, certain of our non-us subsidiaries provided oilfield services to the national iranian oil company and certain of its affiliates ( nioc ). we have reclassified the results of this business as a discontinued operation. all prior periods have been restated accordingly. our residual transactions or dealings with the government of iran during 2015 consisted of payments of taxes and other typical governmental charges. certain of our non-us subsidiaries maintained depository accounts at the dubai branch of bank saderat iran ( saderat ), and at bank tejarat ( tejarat ) in tehran and in kish for the deposit by nioc of amounts owed to non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger for prior services rendered in iran and for the maintenance of such amounts previously received. one non-us subsidiary also maintains an account at tejarat for payment of local expenses such as taxes and utilities. we anticipate that we will discontinue our dealings with saderat and tejarat following the receipt of all amounts owed to us for prior services rendered in iran. our failure to comply with foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other laws could have a negative impact on our ongoing operations. we are subject to complex us and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. we are also subject to trade sanction laws that restrict certain operations in various countries or with certain persons. the internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. violations of international and us laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the 8 discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation or regulations. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gasses and their potential role in climate change. existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. the oilfield service industry is highly competitive. our ability to continually provide competitive technology and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cybersecurity risks and threats could affect our business. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material impact on our systems when such incidents or attacks do occur. if our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks are circumvented or breached, this could result in the loss of our intellectual property or other proprietary information, including customer data, and disruption of our business operations. our ability to complete the proposed merger with cameron is subject to various closing conditions and the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities which may impose conditions that could materially adversely affect cameron or schlumberger or cause the merger to be abandoned. the merger agreement contains certain closing conditions, including approval of the proposed merger by cameron stockholders, the absence of injunctions or other legal restrictions and that no material adverse effect shall have occurred with respect to either company. on december 17, 2015, cameron stockholders voted to adopt our proposed merger. also, in november 2015 the u.s. department of justice cleared our proposed merger without any conditions. however, we will be unable to complete the merger until consents and approvals are received from the european commission and various other governmental entities. regulatory entities have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations and may impose certain requirements or obligations as conditions for their approval. the merger agreement may require us to accept conditions from these regulators that could adversely affect the combined company. if the regulatory clearances are not received, or they are not received on terms that satisfy the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, then we will not be obligated to complete the merger. we can provide no assurance that the various closing conditions will be satisfied and that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that any required conditions will not materially adversely affect the combined company following the merger. in addition, we can provide no assurance that these conditions will not result in the abandonment or delay of the merger. failure to complete the proposed merger with cameron could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. if the proposed merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we would be subject to several risks, including a decline in the market price of our common stock, negative customer perception and diversion of management's focus on pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial to us, in each case, without realizing any of the benefits that might have resulted had the merger been completed. multiple lawsuits have been filed against us and cameron challenging the proposed merger, and an adverse ruling in any such lawsuit may prevent the merger from being completed. after the announcement of the proposed merger, four putative class action lawsuits were commenced on behalf of stockholders of cameron against cameron and its directors, as well as against us and schlumberger holding corporation and rain merger sub (both of which are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries). these lawsuits were consolidated for all purposes and a consolidated amended class action complaint (the consolidated complaint ) was filed. the consolidated complaint seeks various remedies, including enjoining the merger from being consummated, rescission of the merger to the extent already implemented and the plaintiffs' costs and fees. additional lawsuits with similar allegations may be filed. while we believe these lawsuits are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend against such claims, the outcome of any such litigation is inherently uncertain. one of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no law, order, injunction, judgment, decree, ruling or other similar requirement shall be in effect that prohibits the completion of the merger. accordingly, if any of the plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the completion of the merger, then that injunction may prevent the merger from becoming effective, or delay its becoming effective. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the proposed merger. the success of the proposed merger will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine our business with that of cameron in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated synergies. however, we must successfully combine both businesses in a manner that permits these benefits to be realized. in addition, we must achieve the anticipated synergies without 10 adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. if we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully , may take longer to realize than expected , or may never be realized . potential issues and difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following: difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex combined company; lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either or both of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company, or deciding to decrease their level of business in order to reduce their reliance on a single company; integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and customer service; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger; and performance shortfalls at one or both of the two companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing the merger and integrating the companies' operations. business issues currently faced by cameron may impact our operations. to the extent that cameron currently has or is perceived by customers to have operational challenges, such as on-time performance, safety issues or workforce issues, those challenges may raise concerns by our existing customers following the merger, which may limit or impede our future ability to obtain additional work from those customers. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. the current significant oil and gas industry downturn has resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services, which has had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if these conditions worsen or oil and gas prices do not improve, further reductions in spending by the oil and gas industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry's view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. since 2014, oil and gas prices have declined significantly, resulting in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry. as a result, many of our customers have reduced or delayed their oil and gas exploration and production spending, reducing the demand for our services and exerting downward pressure on the prices that we charge. these conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial condition. continued low oil and gas prices or a further decline in oil and gas prices could cause a reduction in cash flows for our customers, which could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of our customers. this could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas will follow historic patterns or recover in the near term. continued or worsening conditions in the oil and gas industry could further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 76% of our consolidated revenue in 2015, 71% in 2014 and 73% in 2013. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: volatility in political, social and economic conditions in certain areas; exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the european union, the united states or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act or similar legislation in other countries; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. we completed the wind down of our service operations in iran during the second quarter of 2013. prior to this, certain of our non-us subsidiaries provided oilfield services to the national iranian oil company and certain of its affiliates ( nioc ). we have reclassified the results of this business as a discontinued operation. all prior periods have been restated accordingly. our residual transactions or dealings with the government of iran during 2015 consisted of payments of taxes and other typical governmental charges. certain of our non-us subsidiaries maintained depository accounts at the dubai branch of bank saderat iran ( saderat ), and at bank tejarat ( tejarat ) in tehran and in kish for the deposit by nioc of amounts owed to non-us subsidiaries of schlumberger for prior services rendered in iran and for the maintenance of such amounts previously received. one non-us subsidiary also maintains an account at tejarat for payment of local expenses such as taxes and utilities. we anticipate that we will discontinue our dealings with saderat and tejarat following the receipt of all amounts owed to us for prior services rendered in iran. our failure to comply with foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other laws could have a negative impact on our ongoing operations. we are subject to complex us and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. we are also subject to trade sanction laws that restrict certain operations in various countries or with certain persons. the internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. violations of international and us laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the 8 discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation or regulations. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gasses and their potential role in climate change. existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. the oilfield service industry is highly competitive. our ability to continually provide competitive technology and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cybersecurity risks and threats could affect our business. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material impact on our systems when such incidents or attacks do occur. if our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks are circumvented or breached, this could result in the loss of our intellectual property or other proprietary information, including customer data, and disruption of our business operations. our ability to complete the proposed merger with cameron is subject to various closing conditions and the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities which may impose conditions that could materially adversely affect cameron or schlumberger or cause the merger to be abandoned. the merger agreement contains certain closing conditions, including approval of the proposed merger by cameron stockholders, the absence of injunctions or other legal restrictions and that no material adverse effect shall have occurred with respect to either company. on december 17, 2015, cameron stockholders voted to adopt our proposed merger. also, in november 2015 the u.s. department of justice cleared our proposed merger without any conditions. however, we will be unable to complete the merger until consents and approvals are received from the european commission and various other governmental entities. regulatory entities have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations and may impose certain requirements or obligations as conditions for their approval. the merger agreement may require us to accept conditions from these regulators that could adversely affect the combined company. if the regulatory clearances are not received, or they are not received on terms that satisfy the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, then we will not be obligated to complete the merger. we can provide no assurance that the various closing conditions will be satisfied and that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that any required conditions will not materially adversely affect the combined company following the merger. in addition, we can provide no assurance that these conditions will not result in the abandonment or delay of the merger. failure to complete the proposed merger with cameron could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. if the proposed merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we would be subject to several risks, including a decline in the market price of our common stock, negative customer perception and diversion of management's focus on pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial to us, in each case, without realizing any of the benefits that might have resulted had the merger been completed. multiple lawsuits have been filed against us and cameron challenging the proposed merger, and an adverse ruling in any such lawsuit may prevent the merger from being completed. after the announcement of the proposed merger, four putative class action lawsuits were commenced on behalf of stockholders of cameron against cameron and its directors, as well as against us and schlumberger holding corporation and rain merger sub (both of which are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries). these lawsuits were consolidated for all purposes and a consolidated amended class action complaint (the consolidated complaint ) was filed. the consolidated complaint seeks various remedies, including enjoining the merger from being consummated, rescission of the merger to the extent already implemented and the plaintiffs' costs and fees. additional lawsuits with similar allegations may be filed. while we believe these lawsuits are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend against such claims, the outcome of any such litigation is inherently uncertain. one of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no law, order, injunction, judgment, decree, ruling or other similar requirement shall be in effect that prohibits the completion of the merger. accordingly, if any of the plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the completion of the merger, then that injunction may prevent the merger from becoming effective, or delay its becoming effective. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the proposed merger. the success of the proposed merger will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine our business with that of cameron in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated synergies. however, we must successfully combine both businesses in a manner that permits these benefits to be realized. in addition, we must achieve the anticipated synergies without 10 adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. if we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully , may take longer to realize than expected , or may never be realized . potential issues and difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following: difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex combined company; lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either or both of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company, or deciding to decrease their level of business in order to reduce their reliance on a single company; integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and customer service; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger; and performance shortfalls at one or both of the two companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing the merger and integrating the companies' operations. business issues currently faced by cameron may impact our operations. to the extent that cameron currently has or is perceived by customers to have operational challenges, such as on-time performance, safety issues or workforce issues, those challenges may raise concerns by our existing customers following the merger, which may limit or impede our future ability to obtain additional work from those customers. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing centers as its principal owned or leased facilities. the following sets forth schlumberger's principal owned or leased facilities: beijing, china; clamart, france; fuchinobe, japan; oslo and stavanger, norway; singapore; abingdon, cambridge, gatwick and stonehouse, united kingdom; moscow, russia; and within the united states: boston, massachusetts; houston, katy, rosharon and sugar land, texas; battle mountain, nevada; greybull, wyoming and florence, kentucky. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to this item 3. legal proceedings is set forth in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. mine safety disclosures. the barite and bentonite mining operations of m-i llc, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, are subject to regulation by the federal mine safety and health administration under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and item 104 of regulation s-k is included in exhibit 95 to this form 10-k. 11 part ii item 5. market for schlumberger's common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of december 31, 2015, there were 23,831 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger's common stock is the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), where it is traded under the symbol slb, although it is traded on other exchanges in and outside the united states, including the euronext paris, the london stock exchange and the six swiss exchange. common stock, market prices and dividends declared per share quarterly high and low prices for schlumberger's common stock as reported by the nyse (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2015 and 2014, were as follows: price range dividends high low declared 2015 quarters first $ 89.00 $ 75.60 $ 0.50 second 95.13 83.60 0.50 third 86.69 67.75 0.50 fourth 82.43 66.57 0.50 2014 quarters first $ 98.45 $ 85.77 $ 0.40 second 118.13 96.66 0.40 third 118.76 100.30 0.40 fourth 102.40 78.47 0.40 there are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any cura ao withholding or other cura ao taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares. the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the standard &amp; poor's 500 index (s&amp;p 500 index) and the cumulative total return on the philadelphia oil service index (osx) over the five-year period ended december 31, 2015. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. 12 comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index and the philadelphia oil service index (osx) assumes $100 invested on december 31, 2010 in schlumberger common stock, in the s&amp;p 500 index and in the philadelphia oil service index (osx) and reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment. share repurchases on july 18, 2013, the schlumberger board of directors (the board ) approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock, to be completed at the latest by june 30, 2018. schlumberger's common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 2015 was as follows: (stated in thousands, except per share amounts) total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program maximum value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program october 1 through october 31, 2015 2,398.0 $ 74.00 2,398.0 $ 1,644,290 november 1 through november 30, 2015 1,525.7 $ 78.44 1,525.7 $ 1,524,623 december 1 through december 31, 2015 1,473.7 $ 68.92 1,473.7 $ 1,423,058 5,397.4 $ 73.86 5,397.4 in connection with the exercise of stock options under schlumberger's stock incentive plans, schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. schlumberger does not view these transactions as requiring disclosure under this item 5 as the number of shares of schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not material. on january 21, 2016, the board approved a new $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock. this new program will take effect once the remaining $1.4 billion authorized to be repurchased under the july 18, 2013 program is exhausted. 13 unregistered sales of eq uity securities none. item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger conducts business in approximately 85 countries. schlumberger's functional currency is primarily the us dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. approximately 83% of schlumberger's revenue in 2015 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger's expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. a 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2015 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. if the 2015 average exchange rates of the us dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, schlumberger's pretax operating income would have increased by approximately 3%. conversely, a 5% weakening of the us dollar average exchange rates would have decreased pretax operating income by approximately 3%. please refer to note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of exchange rates as it relates to schlumberger's operations in venezuela. 29 schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denom inated in other than a functional currency or on expenses. at december 31, 2015, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $3.8 billion in various foreign currencies of which $1.2 billion relate to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and occasionally interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2015, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $14.3 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $4.7 billion before considering the effects of cross currency swaps. schlumberger's exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. both short-term investments and fixed income investments , held to maturity , which totaled approximately $10.7 billion at december 31, 2015, are comprised primarily of money market funds, time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, bonds and notes, substantially all of which are denominated in us dollars. the average return on investments was 1.0% in 2015. the following table represents the carrying amounts of schlumberger's debt at december 31, 2015 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) expected maturity dates 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2025 total fixed rate debt 1.95% senior notes $ 1,100 $ 1,100 2.65% senior notes 500 500 1.25% senior notes $ 1,000 1,000 1.90% senior notes 499 499 2.35% senior notes $ 1,297 1,297 1.50% guaranteed notes $ 566 566 3.00% senior notes $ 1,591 1,591 3.30% senior notes $ 1,597 1,597 4.20% senior notes 1,100 1,100 2.40% senior notes $ 999 999 3.63% senior notes 845 845 3.65% senior notes $ 1,496 1,496 4.00% senior notes $ 1,741 1,741 total fixed rate debt $ 1,600 $ 1,499 $ 1,297 $ 566 $ 1,591 $ 2,697 $ 1,844 $ 1,496 $ 1,741 $ 14,331 variable rate debt 2,957 28 1,329 354 - - - - - 4,668 total $ 4,557 $ 1,527 $ 2,626 $ 920 $ 1,591 $ 2,697 $ 1,844 $ 1,496 $ 1,741 $ 18,999 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $14.3 billion as of december 31, 2015. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2015 was 1.0%. schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. 30 forward-looking statements this form 10-k and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of its segments (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger's customers; the integration of cameron into our business; the anticipated benefits of the cameron transaction; the success of schlumberger's joint ventures and alliances; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger's customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic, political and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing erosion; weather and seasonal factors; operational modifications, delays or cancellations; production declines; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; the risk that the contemplated cameron merger will not occur, negative effects from the pendency of the contemplated cameron merger; the inability after the closing of the cameron merger to successfully integrate the merged businesses and to realize expected synergies; the inability to retain key employees; expenses for the merger; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the risk factors section of this form 10-k and other filings that we make with the securities and exchange commission. if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 31risk factors 7 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors known to us contains important information for the understanding of our forward-looking statements, which are discussed immediately following item 7a. of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. the current significant oil and gas industry downturn has resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services, which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if these conditions worsen or oil and gas prices do not improve, it could have a further material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on our customers' views of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to our customers' views of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. since 2014, oil and gas prices have declined significantly, resulting in lower expenditures by our customers. as a result, many of our customers have reduced or delayed their oil and gas exploration and production spending, reducing the demand for our products and services and exerting downward pressure on the prices that we charge. these conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial condition. 7 the continued low oil and gas prices have caused a reduction in cash flows for our customers, which has had a significant adverse effect on the financial condition of some of our customers. this has resulted , in and may continue to result in , project modifications, delays and cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could ha ve a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas will follow historic patterns or recover meaningfully in the near term. continued or worsening conditions in the oil and gas industry could have a further material adverse affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 80% of our consolidated revenue in 2016, 76% in 2015 and 71% in 2014. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: volatility in political, social and economic conditions; exposure to expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states, the european union or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) or similar legislation; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex us and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we are subject to complex us and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. we are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons. our ability to transfer people and products among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations. the internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery, trade 8 control, trade sanctions or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financi al condition. violations of international and us laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material advers e effect on our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation or regulations. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gasses and their potential role in climate change. existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. the oilfield service industry is highly competitive. our ability to continually provide competitive technology and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property righ ts, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may adversely affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cybersecurity risks and threats could adversely affect our business. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material impact on our systems when such incidents or attacks do occur. if our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks are circumvented or breached, this could result in the loss of our intellectual property or other proprietary information, including customer data, and disruption of our business operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27 of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. the current significant oil and gas industry downturn has resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services, which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if these conditions worsen or oil and gas prices do not improve, it could have a further material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on our customers' views of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to our customers' views of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. since 2014, oil and gas prices have declined significantly, resulting in lower expenditures by our customers. as a result, many of our customers have reduced or delayed their oil and gas exploration and production spending, reducing the demand for our products and services and exerting downward pressure on the prices that we charge. these conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial condition. 7 the continued low oil and gas prices have caused a reduction in cash flows for our customers, which has had a significant adverse effect on the financial condition of some of our customers. this has resulted , in and may continue to result in , project modifications, delays and cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could ha ve a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas will follow historic patterns or recover meaningfully in the near term. continued or worsening conditions in the oil and gas industry could have a further material adverse affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 80% of our consolidated revenue in 2016, 76% in 2015 and 71% in 2014. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: volatility in political, social and economic conditions; exposure to expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states, the european union or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) or similar legislation; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex us and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we are subject to complex us and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. we are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons. our ability to transfer people and products among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations. the internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery, trade 8 control, trade sanctions or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financi al condition. violations of international and us laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material advers e effect on our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation or regulations. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gasses and their potential role in climate change. existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. the oilfield service industry is highly competitive. our ability to continually provide competitive technology and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property righ ts, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may adversely affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cybersecurity risks and threats could adversely affect our business. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material impact on our systems when such incidents or attacks do occur. if our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks are circumvented or breached, this could result in the loss of our intellectual property or other proprietary information, including customer data, and disruption of our business operations. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing centers as its principal owned or leased facilities. the following sets forth schlumberger's principal owned or leased facilities: beijing, china; beziers and clamart, france; fuchinobe, japan; kleppest and stavanger, norway; singapore; abingdon and cambridge, united kingdom; moscow, russia; johor, malaysia; and within the united states: boston, massachusetts; houston, katy, rosharon and sugar land, texas; berwick, louisiana; battle mountain, nevada and greybull, wyoming. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to this item 3. legal proceedings is set forth in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements . 10 item 4. mine safety disclosures. the barite and bentonite mining operations of m-i llc, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, are subject to regulation by the federal mine safety and health administration under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and item 104 of regulation s-k is included in exhibit 95 to this form 10-k. part ii item 5. market for schlumberger's common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of december 31, 2016, there were 26,201 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger's common stock is the new york stock exchange (nyse), where it is traded under the symbol slb, although it is traded on other exchanges in and outside the united states, including the euronext paris, the london stock exchange and the six swiss exchange. common stock, market prices and dividends declared per share quarterly high and low prices for schlumberger's common stock as reported by the nyse (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2016 and 2015, were as follows: price range dividends high low declared 2016 quarters first $ 76.16 $ 59.60 $ 0.50 second 81.96 71.69 0.50 third 83.97 74.33 0.50 fourth 87.00 77.48 0.50 2015 quarters first $ 89.00 $ 75.60 $ 0.50 second 95.13 83.60 0.50 third 86.69 67.75 0.50 fourth 82.43 66.57 0.50 there are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any cura ao withholding or other cura ao taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares. 11 the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock with the cumulative total return on the standard &amp; poor's 500 index ( s&amp;p 500 index ) and the cumulative total return on the philadelphia oil service index . it assumes $100 was invested on december 31, 2011 in schlumberger common stock, in the s&amp;p 500 index and in the philadelphia oil service index , as well as the reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month o f payment. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be inco rporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index and the philadelphia oil service index share repurchases on july 18, 2013, the schlumberger board of directors (the board ) approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock, to be completed at the latest by june 30, 2018. 12 schlumberger's common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 201 6 was as follows: (stated in thousands, except per share amounts) total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program maximum value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program october 1 through october 31, 2016 327.5 $ 77.98 327.5 $ 735,996 november 1 through november 30, 2016 1,091.0 $ 78.22 1,091.0 $ 650,653 december 1 through december 31, 2016 71.0 $ 79.02 71.0 $ 645,040 1,489.5 $ 73.86 1,489.5 in connection with the exercise of stock options under schlumberger's stock incentive plans, schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. schlumberger does not view these transactions as requiring disclosure under this item 5 as the number of shares of schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not material. on january 21, 2016, the board approved a new $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock. this new program will take effect once the remaining $0.6 billion authorized to be repurchased under the july 18, 2013 program is exhausted. unregistered sales of equity securities none. item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger operates in more than 85 countries. schlumberger's functional currency is primarily the us dollar. approximately 77% of schlumberger's revenue in 2016 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger's expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to manage the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on its earnings. schlumberger enters into foreign currency forward contracts to provide a hedge against currency fluctuations on certain monetary assets and liabilities, and certain expenses denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. a 10% appreciation in the us dollar from the december 31, 2016 market rates would increase the unrealized value of schlumberger's forward contracts by $47 million. conversely, a 10% depreciation in the us dollar from the december 31, 2016 market rates would decrease the unrealized value of schlumberger's forward contracts by $57 million. in either scenario, the gain or loss on the forward contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact on future earnings. at december 31, 2016, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $5.5 billion in various foreign currencies of which $1.1 billion related to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and occasionally interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2016, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $14.7 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $4.9 billion, before considering the effects of cross currency swaps. schlumberger's exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. both short-term investments and fixed income investments , held to maturity , which totaled approximately $6.6 billion at december 31, 2016, are comprised primarily of money market funds, time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, bonds and notes, substantially all of which are denominated in us dollars. the average return on investments was 0.9% in 2016. 27 the following table reflects the carrying amounts of schlumberger's debt at december 31, 2016 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) expected maturity dates 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 thereafter total fixed rate debt 1.25% senior notes $ 1,000 $ 1,000 1.40% notes 250 250 1.90% senior notes 499 499 2.35% senior notes $ 1,297 1,297 6.38% notes 297 297 0.63% guaranteed notes $ 622 622 1.50% guaranteed notes 536 536 3.00% senior notes $ 1,591 1,591 3.30% senior notes $ 1,594 1,594 4.20% senior notes 1,100 1,100 4.50% notes 137 137 2.40% senior notes $ 996 996 3.63% senior notes 845 845 3.60% notes 110 110 3.65% senior notes $ 1,491 1,491 4.00% notes 83 83 3.70% notes $ 56 56 4.00% senior notes $ 1,740 1,740 7.00% notes $ 214 214 5.95% notes 116 116 5.13% notes 99 99 total fixed rate debt $ 1,749 $ 1,594 $ 1,158 $ 1,591 $ 2,831 $ 1,951 $ 1,574 $ 56 $ 1,740 $ 429 $ 14,673 variable rate debt 1,404 447 146 1,015 1,931 - - - - - 4,943 total $ 3,153 $ 2,041 $ 1,304 $ 2,606 $ 4,762 $ 1,951 $ 1,574 $ 56 $ 1,740 $ 429 $ 19,616 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $15.0 billion as of december 31, 2016. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2016 was 1.7%. schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. 28 forward-looking statements this form 10-k and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of its segments (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; rig count; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger's customers; the anticipated benefits of the cameron transaction; targeted mergers and acquisitions; the success of schlumberger's joint ventures and alliances; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger's customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; demand for our integrated services and new technologies; the inability to reduce the cost-per-barrel of hydrocarbon developments; schlumberger's future cash flows; general economic, political, security and business conditions in key regions of the world; country risk; pricing erosion; foreign exchange rates; weather and seasonal factors; operational modifications, delays or cancellations; production declines; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; the ability to realize expected synergies from the cameron acquisition; the inability to retain key employees; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the risk factors section of this form 10-k and other filings that we make with the securities and exchange commission. if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 29risk factors 8 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors known to us contains important information for the understanding of our forward-looking statements, which are discussed immediately following item 7a. of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. the oil and gas industry downturn has resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services, which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on our customers' views of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to our customers' views of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. oil and gas prices have declined significantly from their highs in 2014, resulting in lower expenditures by our customers. during the downturn, many of our customers reduced or delayed their oil and gas exploration and production spending, reducing the demand for our products and services and exerting downward pressure on the prices that we have been able to charge. these conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower oil and gas prices have resulted in a reduction in cash flows for our customers. this has resulted in, and may continue to result in, project modifications, delays and cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; 8 the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas will follow historic patterns or recover meaningfully in the near term. continued or worsening conditions in the oil and gas industry could have a further material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 74% of our consolidated revenue in 2017, 80% in 2016 and 76% in 2015. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: volatility in political, social and economic conditions; exposure to expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states, the european union or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) or similar legislation; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex us and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we are subject to complex us and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. we are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons. our ability to transfer people and products among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations. the internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery, trade control, trade sanctions or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. violations of international and us laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation or regulations. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gasses and their potential role in climate change. existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. the oilfield service industry is highly competitive. our ability to continually provide competitive technology and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending, or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied or our trade secrets are not 10 adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adver sely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs, and may distract management from running our business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may adversely affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cyberattacks could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operation. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. although we devote significant resources to protect our systems and data, we have experienced and will continue to experience varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal conduct of our business. there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems when such incidents or attacks do occur. if our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks are circumvented or breached, this could result in disruptions to our business operations, access to our financial reporting systems, the loss of access to critical data or systems through ransomware or other attacks, or other loss, misuse or corruption of critical data and proprietary information, including our intellectual property and customer data. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. the oil and gas industry downturn has resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services, which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for the majority of our products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on our customers' views of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to our customers' views of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. oil and gas prices have declined significantly from their highs in 2014, resulting in lower expenditures by our customers. during the downturn, many of our customers reduced or delayed their oil and gas exploration and production spending, reducing the demand for our products and services and exerting downward pressure on the prices that we have been able to charge. these conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower oil and gas prices have resulted in a reduction in cash flows for our customers. this has resulted in, and may continue to result in, project modifications, delays and cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; 8 the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas will follow historic patterns or recover meaningfully in the near term. continued or worsening conditions in the oil and gas industry could have a further material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 74% of our consolidated revenue in 2017, 80% in 2016 and 76% in 2015. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: volatility in political, social and economic conditions; exposure to expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the united states, the european union or other countries; restrictions under the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) or similar legislation; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex us and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we are subject to complex us and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. we are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons. our ability to transfer people and products among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations. the internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery, trade control, trade sanctions or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. violations of international and us laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation or regulations. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gasses and their potential role in climate change. existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. the oilfield service industry is highly competitive. our ability to continually provide competitive technology and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending, or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied or our trade secrets are not 10 adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adver sely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs, and may distract management from running our business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather conditions may adversely affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cyberattacks could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operation. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. although we devote significant resources to protect our systems and data, we have experienced and will continue to experience varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal conduct of our business. there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems when such incidents or attacks do occur. if our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks are circumvented or breached, this could result in disruptions to our business operations, access to our financial reporting systems, the loss of access to critical data or systems through ransomware or other attacks, or other loss, misuse or corruption of critical data and proprietary information, including our intellectual property and customer data. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing centers as its principal owned or leased facilities. the following sets forth schlumberger's principal owned or leased facilities: beijing, china; beziers and clamart, france; fuchinobe, japan; kleppest and stavanger, norway; singapore; abingdon and cambridge, united kingdom; moscow, russia; johor, malaysia; and within the united states: boston, massachusetts; houston, katy, rosharon and sugar land, texas; berwick, louisiana; battle mountain, nevada and greybull, wyoming. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to this item 3. legal proceedings is set forth in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. mine safety disclosures. information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and item 104 of regulation s-k is included in exhibit 95 to this form 10-k. 11 part ii item 5. market for schlumberger's common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of december 31, 2017, there were 26,572 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger's common stock is the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), where it is traded under the symbol slb. common stock, market prices and dividends declared per share quarterly high and low prices for schlumberger's common stock as reported by the nyse (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2017 and 2016, were as follows: price range dividends high low declared 2017 quarters first $ 87.84 $ 76.14 $ 0.50 second 80.89 65.10 0.50 third 70.01 62.56 0.50 fourth 69.57 61.02 0.50 2016 quarters first $ 76.16 $ 59.60 $ 0.50 second 81.96 71.69 0.50 third 83.97 74.33 0.50 fourth 87.00 77.48 0.50 there are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any cura ao withholding or other cura ao taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares. 12 the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock with the cumulative total return on the standard &amp; poor's 500 index ( s&amp;p 500 index ) and the cumulative total return on the philadelphia oil service index . it assumes $100 w as invested on december 31, 2012 in schlumberger common stock, in the s&amp;p 500 index and in the philadelphia oil service index , as well as the reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month o f payment. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be inco rporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index and the philadelphia oil service index share repurchases on july 18, 2013, the schlumberger board of directors (the board ) approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock, to be completed at the latest by june 30, 2018. this program was completed during may 2017. on january 21, 2016, the board approved a new $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock. this new program took effect once the july 18, 2013 program was exhausted. 13 schlumberger's common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 201 7 was as follows: (stated in thousands, except per share amounts) total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program maximum value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program october 2017 529.7 $ 66.44 529.7 $ 9,741,944 november 2017 528.6 $ 63.61 528.6 $ 9,708,321 december 2017 496.4 $ 64.37 496.4 $ 9,676,364 1,554.7 $ 64.82 1,554.7 unregistered sales of equity securities none. item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger operates in more than 85 countries. schlumberger's functional currency is primarily the us dollar. approximately 78% of schlumberger's revenue in 2017 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger's expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to manage the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on its earnings. schlumberger enters into foreign currency forward contracts to provide a hedge against currency fluctuations on certain monetary assets and liabilities, and certain expenses denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. a 10% appreciation in the us dollar from the december 31, 2017 market rates would increase the unrealized value of schlumberger's forward contracts by $123 million. conversely, a 10% depreciation in the us dollar from the december 31, 2017 market rates would decrease the unrealized value of schlumberger's forward contracts by $74 million. in either scenario, the gain or loss on the forward contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact on future earnings. at december 31, 2017, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $5.0 billion in various foreign currencies of which $1.8 billion related to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and occasionally interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2017, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $14.2 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $4.0 billion, before considering the effects of cross currency swaps. schlumberger's exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. short-term investments, which totaled approximately $3.3 billion at december 31, 2017, is comprised primarily of money market funds, time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, bonds and notes, substantially all of which are denominated in us dollars. the average return on investments was 1.3% in 2017. 28 the following table reflects the carrying amounts of schlumberger's debt at december 31, 201 7 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 thereafter total fixed rate debt 2.35% senior notes $ 1,298 $ 1,298 6.38% notes 284 284 0.63% guaranteed notes $ 712 712 1.50% guaranteed notes 603 603 3.00% senior notes $ 1,593 1,593 2.20% senior notes 498 498 3.30% senior notes $ 1,595 1,595 4.20% senior notes 1,100 1,100 4.50% notes 135 135 2.40% senior notes $ 996 996 3.63% senior notes 846 846 2.65% senior notes 598 598 3.60% notes 110 110 3.65% senior notes $ 1,492 1,492 4.00% notes 82 82 3.70% notes $ 56 56 4.00% senior notes $ 1,741 1,741 7.00% notes $ 212 212 5.95% notes 115 115 5.13% notes 99 99 total fixed rate debt $ 1,582 $ 1,315 $ 2,091 $ 2,830 $ 2,550 $ 1,574 $ 56 $ 1,741 $ 426 $ 14,165 variable rate debt 1,742 147 711 1,434 - - - - - 4,034 total $ 3,324 $ 1,462 $ 2,802 $ 4,264 $ 2,550 $ 1,574 $ 56 $ 1,741 $ 426 $ 18,199 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $14.5 billion as of december 31, 2017. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2017 was 2.3%. schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. forward-looking statements this form 10-k and other statements we make, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of its segments (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and technology, including our transformation program; capital expenditures by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger's customers; the effects of u.s. tax reform; our effective tax rate; the success of schlumberger's spm projects, joint ventures and alliances; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger's customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic, political and business conditions in key regions of the world; foreign currency risk; pricing pressure; weather and seasonal factors; operational modifications, delays or cancellations; production declines; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; the inability to retain key employees; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the risk factors section of this form 10-k and other filings that we make with the securities and exchange commission. if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 29risk factors 7 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors known to us contains important information for the understanding of our forward-looking statements, which are discussed immediately following item 7a. of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by our customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on our customers' views of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to our customers' views of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, oil and natural gas prices have experienced significant volatility and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; 7 access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our products and services as well as and downward pressure on the prices we charge. sustained market uncertainty can also result in lower demand and pricing for our products and services. a significant downturn or sustained market uncertainty could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 69% of our consolidated revenue in 2018, 74% in 2017 and 80% in 2016. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: volatility in political, social and economic conditions; exposure to expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the european union, the united states or other countries; exposure under the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) or similar legislation; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex us and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we are subject to complex us and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. we are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons. our ability to transfer people, products and data among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations. the internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery, trade control, trade sanctions or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. violations of international and us laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation or regulations. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gasses and their potential role in climate change. existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered 8 fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, suc h as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, including catastrophic well incidents, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. catastrophic well incidents, including blow outs at a well site, may expose us to additional liabilities. generally, we rely on contractual indemnities, releases, limitations on liability with our customers and insurance to protect us from potential liability related to such events. however, our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. the oilfield service industry is highly competitive. our ability to continually provide competitive technology and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending, or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 we may be subj ect to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs, and may distract management from running our business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather may adversely affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cyberattacks could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operation. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business, including systems operated by or under the control of third parties. although we devote significant resources to protect our systems and proprietary data, we have experienced and will continue to experience varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal conduct of our business. there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems when such incidents or attacks do occur. if our systems, or the systems of third parties for protecting against cybersecurity risks are circumvented or breached, or we are subject to ransomware or other attacks, this could result in disruptions to our business operations; unauthorized access to (or the loss of company access to) competitively sensitive, confidential or other critical data or systems; loss of customers; financial losses; regulatory fines; misuse or corruption of critical data and proprietary information. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. if any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. a substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by our customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on our customers' views of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to our customers' views of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, oil and natural gas prices have experienced significant volatility and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels for oil; oil and gas production levels by non-opec countries; the level of excess production capacity; political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; 7 access to potential resources; governmental policies and subsidies; the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and weather conditions. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our products and services as well as and downward pressure on the prices we charge. sustained market uncertainty can also result in lower demand and pricing for our products and services. a significant downturn or sustained market uncertainty could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 85 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 69% of our consolidated revenue in 2018, 74% in 2017 and 80% in 2016. operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: volatility in political, social and economic conditions; exposure to expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the european union, the united states or other countries; exposure under the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) or similar legislation; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; currency exchange controls; inflation; and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex us and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we are subject to complex us and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. we are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons. our ability to transfer people, products and data among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations. the internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery, trade control, trade sanctions or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. violations of international and us laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation or regulations. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gasses and their potential role in climate change. existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. specially engineered 8 fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. proppant, suc h as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. if such additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, including catastrophic well incidents, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. an accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. catastrophic well incidents, including blow outs at a well site, may expose us to additional liabilities. generally, we rely on contractual indemnities, releases, limitations on liability with our customers and insurance to protect us from potential liability related to such events. however, our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. the oilfield service industry is highly competitive. our ability to continually provide competitive technology and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. if we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending, or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 we may be subj ect to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs, and may distract management from running our business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. in periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather may adversely affect our operations. our business may be materially affected by severe weather in areas where we operate. this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cyberattacks could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operation. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business, including systems operated by or under the control of third parties. although we devote significant resources to protect our systems and proprietary data, we have experienced and will continue to experience varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal conduct of our business. there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems when such incidents or attacks do occur. if our systems, or the systems of third parties for protecting against cybersecurity risks are circumvented or breached, or we are subject to ransomware or other attacks, this could result in disruptions to our business operations; unauthorized access to (or the loss of company access to) competitively sensitive, confidential or other critical data or systems; loss of customers; financial losses; regulatory fines; misuse or corruption of critical data and proprietary information. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing centers as its principal owned or leased facilities. the following sets forth schlumberger's principal owned or leased facilities: taubate, brazil; beijing and shanghai, china; clamart, france; pune, india; johor, malaysia; veracruz, mexico; stavanger, norway; singapore; campina, romania; abingdon, cambridge and stonehouse, united kingdom and within the united states: little rock, arkansas; ville platte, louisiana; boston, massachusetts; houston, katy, rosharon and sugar land, texas. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to this item 3. legal proceedings is set forth in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. mine safety disclosures. information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and item 104 of regulation s-k is included in exhibit 95 to this form 10-k. 10 part ii item 5. market for schlumberger's common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of december 31, 2018, there were 26,720 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger's common stock is the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), where it is traded under the symbol slb. the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock with the cumulative total return on the standard &amp; poor's 500 index ( s&amp;p 500 index ) and the cumulative total return on the philadelphia oil service index. it assumes $100 was invested on december 31, 2013 in schlumberger common stock, in the s&amp;p 500 index and in the philadelphia oil service index, as well as the reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index and the philadelphia oil service index share repurchases on july 18, 2013, the schlumberger board of directors (the board ) approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock, to be completed by june 30, 2018. this program was completed during may 2017. on january 21, 2016, the board approved a new $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock. 11 schlumberger's common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 201 8 was as follows: (stated in thousands, except per share amounts) total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program maximum value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program october 2018 586.0 $ 59.05 586.0 $ 9,342,049 november 2018 682.4 $ 49.22 682.4 $ 9,308,458 december 2018 797.6 $ 39.97 797.6 $ 9,276,578 2,066.0 $ 48.44 2,066.0 unregistered sales of equity securities none. item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. as a multinational company, schlumberger operates in more than 85 countries. schlumberger's functional currency is primarily the us dollar. approximately 80% of schlumberger's revenue in 2018 was denominated in us dollars. however, outside the united states, a significant portion of schlumberger's expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. therefore, when the us dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which schlumberger conducts business, the us dollar-reported expenses will increase. schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to manage the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on its earnings. schlumberger enters into foreign currency forward contracts to provide a hedge against currency fluctuations on certain monetary assets and liabilities, and certain expenses denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. a 10% appreciation in the us dollar from the december 31, 2018 market rates would increase the unrealized value of schlumberger's forward contracts by $132 million. conversely, a 10% depreciation in the us dollar from the december 31, 2018 market rates would decrease the unrealized value of schlumberger's forward contracts by $143 million. in either scenario, the gain or loss on the forward contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact on future earnings. at december 31, 2018, contracts were outstanding for the us dollar equivalent of $5.0 billion in various foreign currencies, of which $1.9 billion related to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and occasionally interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2018, schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $13.2 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $2.8 billion, before considering the effects of cross currency swaps. schlumberger's exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. short-term investments, which totaled approximately $1.3 billion at december 31, 2018, are comprised primarily of money market funds, time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, bonds and notes, substantially all of which are denominated in us dollars. the average return on investments was 2.3% in 2018. 26 the following table reflects the carrying amounts of schlumberger's debt at december 31, 201 8 by year of maturity: (stated in millions) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 thereafter total fixed rate debt 0.63% guaranteed notes $ 683 $ 683 1.50% guaranteed notes 571 571 3.00% senior notes $ 1,596 1,596 2.20% senior notes 499 499 3.30% senior notes $ 1,596 1,596 4.20% senior notes 1,100 1,100 4.50% notes 132 132 2.40% senior notes $ 997 997 3.63% senior notes 847 847 2.65% senior notes 598 598 3.60% notes 109 109 3.65% senior notes $ 1,493 1,493 4.00% notes 82 82 3.70% notes $ 55 55 4.00% senior notes $ 1,742 1,742 1.00% guaranteed notes $ 678 678 7.00% notes $ 210 210 5.95% notes 115 115 5.13% notes 99 99 total fixed rate debt $ 1,254 $ 2,095 $ 2,828 $ 2,551 $ 1,575 $ 55 $ 1,742 $ 678 $ 424 $ 13,202 variable rate debt 153 9 255 1,870 562 - - - - 2,849 total $ 1,407 $ 2,104 $ 3,083 $ 4,421 $ 2,137 $ 55 $ 1,742 $ 678 $ 424 $ 16,051 the fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $13.1 billion as of december 31, 2018. the weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of december 31, 2018 was 3.5%. schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. forward-looking statements this form 10-k and other statements we make contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for schlumberger as a whole and for each of its segments (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and technology, including our transformation program; capital expenditures by schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of schlumberger's customers; the effects of u.s. tax reform; our effective tax rate; schlumberger's spm projects, joint ventures and alliances; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by schlumberger's customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic, political and business conditions in key regions of the world; foreign currency risk; pricing pressure; weather and seasonal factors; operational modifications, delays or cancellations; production declines; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in this form 10-k and other filings that we make with the securities and exchange commission. if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of any such development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 27risk factors 7 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors known to us contains important information for the understanding of our forward-looking statements, which are discussed immediately following item 7a. of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. demand for our products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. the recent oil and gas industry downturn has (and current market conditions have) resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services and lower expenditures by our customers, which have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on our customers' views of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to our customers' views of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, lower capital expenditures, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, oil and natural gas prices have experienced significant volatility and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions, as well as increased demand for (and availability of) alternative fuels and electric vehicles the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries and 10 other oil producing countries, including russia, mexico and kazakhstan ( opec+ ) to set and maintain production levels for oil oil and gas production levels by non-opec+ countries the level of excess production capacity 7 political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity access to potential resources governmental policies and subsidies the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas government initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources and public sentiment regarding alternatives to oil and gas technological advances affecting energy consumption and weather conditions. there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas or for our products and services will follow historic patterns or recover meaningfully in the near term. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our products and services and downward pressure on the prices that we are able to charge. sustained market uncertainty can also result in lower demand and pricing for our products and services. a future downturn or sustained market uncertainty could again result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 120 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 72% of our consolidated revenue in 2019, 68% in 2018 and 74% in 2017. in addition to the risks addressed elsewhere in this section, our operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: volatility in political, social and economic conditions exposure to expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies deprivation of contract rights trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the european union, the united states or other countries exposure under the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), the u.k. bribery act or similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation theft of proprietary technology and other intellectual property restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital currency exchange controls inflation and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex us and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. we are subject to complex us and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. we are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons. our ability to transfer people, products and data among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations. the internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or from material violations of applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery, trade control, trade sanctions or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. violations of international and us laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. 8 demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation , regulations and public sentiment . environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the european union, the united states and other regions or countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and thus reduce future demand for our products and services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. new or additional legal or regulatory requirements regarding climate change could adversely affect our business, reputation or demand for our stock. there is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors and other stakeholders, on these and other sustainability matters. additionally, some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. enactment of additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations can adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could be material. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, significant capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render us liable for damages without regard to our degree of care or fault. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances, and, as a result, we could be liable for the actions of others. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, including catastrophic well incidents, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our operations involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. accidents involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations, which could materially adversely affect us. any catastrophic well incidents, including blowouts at a well site, may expose us to additional liabilities, which could be material. generally, we rely on contractual indemnities, releases, and limitations on liability with our customers and insurance to protect us from potential liability related to such events. however, our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. the oilfield service industry is highly competitive. our ability to continually provide competitive technology and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. failure to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. 9 some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending , or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected when our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. third parties may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services and products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs, and may distract management from running our business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases and technology evolves. in periods of high utilization, it is often more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather may adversely affect our operations. our business has been, and in the future will be affected by severe weather in areas where we operate, which could materially impact our operations and financial results this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, which may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cyberattacks could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operation. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business, including systems operated by or under the control of third parties. although we devote significant resources to protect our systems and proprietary data, we have experienced and will continue to experience varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal conduct of our business. there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems after such incidents or attacks do occur. breaches or circumvention of our systems, or the systems of third parties, including by ransomware or other attacks, result in disruptions to our business operations unauthorized access to (or the loss of company access to) competitively sensitive, confidential or other critical data or systems loss of customers financial losses regulatory fines and misuse or corruption of critical data and proprietary information, any of which could be material. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 of this form 10-k and elsewhere. these risk factors should also be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this form 10-k. we urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the sec and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. demand for our products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. the recent oil and gas industry downturn has (and current market conditions have) resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services and lower expenditures by our customers, which have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. demand for our products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. these expenditures are generally dependent on our customers' views of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to our customers' views of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, lower capital expenditures, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. these effects have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, oil and natural gas prices have experienced significant volatility and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions, as well as increased demand for (and availability of) alternative fuels and electric vehicles the ability or willingness of the organization of petroleum exporting countries and 10 other oil producing countries, including russia, mexico and kazakhstan ( opec+ ) to set and maintain production levels for oil oil and gas production levels by non-opec+ countries the level of excess production capacity 7 political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity access to potential resources governmental policies and subsidies the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas government initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources and public sentiment regarding alternatives to oil and gas technological advances affecting energy consumption and weather conditions. there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas or for our products and services will follow historic patterns or recover meaningfully in the near term. the oil and gas industry has historically experienced downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our products and services and downward pressure on the prices that we are able to charge. sustained market uncertainty can also result in lower demand and pricing for our products and services. a future downturn or sustained market uncertainty could again result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-united states operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 120 countries in which we operate. our non-united states operations accounted for approximately 72% of our consolidated revenue in 2019, 68% in 2018 and 74% in 2017. in addition to the risks addressed elsewhere in this section, our operations in countries other than the united states are subject to various risks, including: volatility in political, social and economic conditions exposure to expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies deprivation of contract rights trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the european union, the united states or other countries exposure under the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), the u.k. bribery act or similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation theft of proprietary technology and other intellectual property restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital currency exchange controls inflation and currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. our failure to comply with complex us and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. we are subject to complex us and foreign laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. we are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons. our ability to transfer people, products and data among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations. the internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or from material violations of applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery, trade control, trade sanctions or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. violations of international and us laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, operating results and financial condition. 8 demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation , regulations and public sentiment . environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the european union, the united states and other regions or countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and thus reduce future demand for our products and services. this may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. new or additional legal or regulatory requirements regarding climate change could adversely affect our business, reputation or demand for our stock. there is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors and other stakeholders, on these and other sustainability matters. additionally, some international, national, state and local governments and agencies have adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, or lead to operational delays and increased costs, and therefore reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. enactment of additional international, national, state or local legislation or regulations can adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could be material. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. we are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, significant capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. the technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. these laws may provide for strict liability for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. strict liability can render us liable for damages without regard to our degree of care or fault. some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances, and, as a result, we could be liable for the actions of others. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. in addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. in addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. we could be subject to substantial liability claims, including catastrophic well incidents, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. our operations involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. accidents involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations, which could materially adversely affect us. any catastrophic well incidents, including blowouts at a well site, may expose us to additional liabilities, which could be material. generally, we rely on contractual indemnities, releases, and limitations on liability with our customers and insurance to protect us from potential liability related to such events. however, our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. the oilfield service industry is highly competitive. our ability to continually provide competitive technology and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. failure to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. 9 some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending , or are trade secrets. our business may be adversely affected when our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. third parties may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services and products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs, and may distract management from running our business. royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. if a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. we require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases and technology evolves. in periods of high utilization, it is often more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. this could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. severe weather may adversely affect our operations. our business has been, and in the future will be affected by severe weather in areas where we operate, which could materially impact our operations and financial results this may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. in addition, particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, which may result in a suspension of activities. any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cyberattacks could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operation. we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business, including systems operated by or under the control of third parties. although we devote significant resources to protect our systems and proprietary data, we have experienced and will continue to experience varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal conduct of our business. there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems after such incidents or attacks do occur. breaches or circumvention of our systems, or the systems of third parties, including by ransomware or other attacks, result in disruptions to our business operations unauthorized access to (or the loss of company access to) competitively sensitive, confidential or other critical data or systems loss of customers financial losses regulatory fines and misuse or corruption of critical data and proprietary information, any of which could be material. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, and other facilities throughout the world, none of which are individually material. item 3. legal proceedings. the information with respect to this item 3. legal proceedings is set forth in note 15 of the consolidated financial statements . item 4. mine safety disclosures. information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and item 104 of regulation s-k is included in exhibit 95 to this form 10-k. 10 part ii item 5. market for schlumberger's common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. as of december 31, 2019, there were 25,464 stockholders of record. the principal united states market for schlumberger's common stock is the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), where it is traded under the symbol slb. the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on schlumberger common stock with the cumulative total return on the standard poor's 500 index ( p 500 index ) and the cumulative total return on the philadelphia oil service index. it assumes $100 was invested on december 31, 2014 in schlumberger common stock, in the p 500 index and in the philadelphia oil service index, as well as the reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment. the stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. the following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the sec, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except to the extent that schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. comparison of five-year cumulative total return among schlumberger common stock, the p 500 index and the philadelphia oil service index share repurchases on january 21, 2016, the schlumberger board of directors approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for schlumberger common stock. 11 schlumberger's common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended december 31, 201 9 was as follows: (stated in thousands, except per share amounts) total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program maximum value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program october 2019 - $ - - $ 8,998,416 november 2019 - $ - - $ 8,998,416 december 2019 - $ - - $ 8,998,416 - $ - - unregistered sales of equity securities none. item 6. selected financial data. the following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and