risk factors 10 risk factors risks related to an investment in kcs's common stock the price of kcs's common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they want to or at prices they find attractive. the price of kcs's common stock on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), listed under the ticker symbol ksu , constantly changes. the company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate. the company's stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond kcs's control. these factors include, but are not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; developments generally affecting the railroad industry; announcements by kcs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings involving kcs; kcs's dividend policy and limitations on the payment of dividends; future sales of kcs's equity or equity-linked securities; the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock or convertible debt; and general domestic and international economic conditions including the availability of short- and long-term financing. in addition, from time to time the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of kcs's common stock. kcs's ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock is currently limited to the available basket amount as defined in the kcsr credit agreement. kcs has agreed, and may agree in the future, to limitations on its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. in addition, to maintain its credit ratings, the company may be limited in its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock so that it can maintain an appropriate level of liquidity or debt. sales of substantial amounts of kcs's common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. as of december 31, 2011 , there were 6,414,464 shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991 amended and restated stock option and performance award plan, the 2008 stock option and performance award plan and the 2009 employee stock purchase plan, and 1,863,360 shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors outside those plans. sales of common stock by employees upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and directors subject to compliance with rule 144 under the securities act, and sales of common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of kcs' common stock. 10 table of contents kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a controlling interest in kcs and that could deprive an investor of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of kcs's common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties, including provisions providing for a classified board and supermajority stockholder approval requirements in order to increase the size of the board of directors, abolish cumulative voting, abolish the classification of the board, or affect certain merger, consolidation or sale transactions. the bylaws provide that a stockholder must give the company advance written notice of its intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual meeting. these provisions may deprive kcs's stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. risks related to kcs's business kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company's domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, particularly union pacific railroad company ( up ) and bnsf railway company ( bnsf ) in the united states and ferromex and ferrosur in mexico, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs's rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs's freight services less competitive. kcs's ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs's failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads' access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. a central part of kcs's growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, projected revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and kcs's inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government in june 1997, which is renewable for additional periods of up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for the first 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct, which is principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, has broad powers to monitor kcsm's compliance with the concession, and it can require kcsm to supply it with any technical, administrative and financial information it requests. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the 11 table of contents plan every five years. the sct treats kcsm's business plans confidentially. the sct also monitors kcsm's compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct reviews, and may amend, these standards every five years. the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide the mexican government certain rights in its relationship with kcsm under the concession, including the right to take over the management of kcsm and its railroad in certain extraordinary cases, such as imminent danger to national security. in the past, the mexican government has used such power with respect to other privatized industries, including the telecommunications industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. in addition, under article 47 of the mexican railroad services law and its regulations, the sct, in consultation with cofeco, reserves the right to set service rates if it determines that effective competition does not exist in the mexican railroad industry. cofeco, however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is therefore unclear under what particular circumstances cofeco would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the sct intervenes and sets service rates, the rates it sets may be too low to allow kcsm to operate profitably. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm's rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, would remain kcsm's property. in the event of early termination, or total or partial revocation, the mexican government would have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the amount of the rent would be determined by experts appointed by kcsm and the mexican government. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after early termination or revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government would also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm's rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm's ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be timely made. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned on three distinct occasions for unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging tariffs higher than the tariffs it has registered with the sct. in addition, the sct may revoke the concession if, among other things, kcsm is sanctioned on five distinct occasions because kcsm restricts the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; kcsm fails to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; kcsm fails to comply with any term or condition of the mexican railroad services law and regulations or the concession; kcsm fails to make the capital investments required under its five-year business plan filed with the sct; or kcsm fails to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican railroad services law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the sct's approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm's surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm's liquidation or bankruptcy. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. revocation or termination of the concession would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would materially adversely affect the mexican operations and the ability to make payments on kcsm's debt as well as materially adversely affect the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs's rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage 12 table of contents the company does not own. kcs's ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial strength and efficient performance of other railroads. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcsm's operations are subject to certain trackage rights, haulage rights and interline service agreements with another mexican rail carrier, some of which are in dispute. through kcsm's concession from the mexican government, kcsm is required to grant short and long distance trackage rights to ferromex. applicable law stipulates that ferromex similarly is required to grant to kcsm rights to use portions of their tracks. these trackage rights have been granted under the concession. the rates to be charged for use of the trackage rights after january 1, 2009, were agreed to by kcsm and ferromex pursuant to the trackage rights agreement, dated february 9, 2010. the trackage rights agreement did not establish rates that may be charged for the right to use the trackage rights for the periods beginning in 1998 through december 31, 2008. if kcsm cannot reach an agreement with ferromex for rates applicable for services prior to january 1, 2009, which are not subject to the trackage rights agreement, the sct is entitled to set the rates in accordance with mexican law and regulations, which rates may not adequately compensate kcsm. kcsm is currently involved in legal proceedings with the sct and discussions with ferromex regarding the rates payable to each other for trackage rights, interline services and haulage rights for periods prior to january 1, 2009. certain of these disputes continue under litigation. any resolution of such procedures adverse to kcsm could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements in a particular quarter or fiscal year. kcs's flexibility to operate its business could be reduced by provisions in its debt obligations. kcs's debt instruments contain covenants which restrict or prohibit certain actions ( negative covenants ), including, but not limited to, kcs's ability to incur debt, create or suffer to exist liens, make prepayments of particular debt, pay dividends, make investments, engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates, issue capital stock, sell certain assets, engage in mergers and consolidations or in sale-leaseback transactions. kcs's debt instruments also contain covenants requiring kcs to, among other things, maintain specified financial ratios ( affirmative covenants ). failure to comply with these negative and affirmative covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could restrict the company's access to liquidity and have a material adverse effect on the company's business or prospects. if the company does not have enough cash to service its debt or fund other liquidity needs, kcs may be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from lenders, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. kcs cannot assure that any of these remedies can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the failure of a bank to fund all or a portion of a request by kcs to borrow money under its existing revolving credit facilities could reduce kcs's ability to fund capital expenditures or otherwise properly fund its operations. the company and its subsidiaries are in an industry that requires continuing infrastructure improvements and acquisitions of capital assets, necessitating substantial expenditure of cash. kcs has existing revolving credit facilities with multiple banking institutions to provide additional liquidity. if any of the banking institutions that are a party to such credit facilities fails to fund its pro rata share of a request by kcs to borrow money under its credit facilities, kcs's ability to fund capital expenditures, fund its operations and pay debt service could be reduced, each of which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the failure of any bank or money market instrument in which the company maintains deposits could reduce the amount of cash the company has available to pay distributions, fund its operations, pay debt service and make additional investments. given the developments in the financial markets, financial institutions have additional capital risks. the company has diversified its holdings of cash and cash equivalents among several banking institutions and money market instruments in an attempt to minimize its exposure. all of the company's bank deposits in the united states are fully insured by the federal deposit insurance corporation or fdic (fdic insurance is unlimited through the end of 2012 for non-interest bearing deposit accounts). however, the company's investments in money market instruments are insured only up to $500,000 and 13 table of contents deposits in mexican financial institutions are not insured. the loss of the company's deposits resulting from the failure of an institution or fund could reduce the amount of cash the company has available to adequately fund its activities, distribute or invest and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a downturn in the debt capital markets or a downgrade of the company's credit ratings may increase the cost of borrowing and make financing difficult to obtain. events in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on the debt capital markets and, as a result, credit may become more expensive and difficult to obtain. lenders may impose more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there may be a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which kcs conducts business. also, the company and its securities are rated by standard &amp; poor's rating services ( s&amp;p ) and moody's investors service ( moody's ). these ratings impact the company's cost of funds and its access to the debt capital markets. the negative impact of tightening credit markets, adverse changes in the debt capital markets generally and/or a downgrade of the company's credit ratings may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to finance capital expansion on favorable terms, if at all, reduced liquidity as a result of limited alternatives to refinance short-term debt, increased financing costs and/or financial terms with increasingly restrictive covenants. kcs's business is capital intensive. the company's business is capital intensive and requires substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things, additions and improvements to roadway, structures and technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of equipment and the rail system. kcs's failure to make necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could impair its ability to serve existing customers, accommodate increases in traffic volumes or result in increased derailments. kcsm's concession from the mexican government requires kcsm to make investments and undertake capital projects. if kcsm fails to make such capital investments, kcsm's business plan commitments with the mexican government may be at risk, requiring kcsm to seek waivers of its business plan. there is no assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by the sct. kcsm may defer capital expenditures under its business plan with the permission of the sct. however, the sct might not grant this permission, and any failure by kcsm to comply with the capital investment commitments in its business plan could result in sanctions imposed by the sct, and could result in revocation of the concession if sanctions are imposed on five distinct occasions. the company cannot assure that the mexican government would grant any such permission or waiver. if such permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and kcsm is sanctioned, its concession might be at risk of revocation, which would materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. see kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances above. kcs has funded, and expects to continue to fund capital expenditures with operating cash flows, debt and equity financing and equipment leases. kcs may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure requirements. even if financing is available, it may not be obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to kcs's existing debt. kcs is dependent on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment. kcs relies on a limited number of suppliers of core rail equipment (including locomotives, rolling stock equipment, rail and ties). the capital intensive nature and complexity of such equipment creates high barriers of entry for any potential new suppliers. if any of kcs's suppliers discontinue production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this could result in increased costs or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs depends on the stability, availability and security of its information technology systems to operate its business. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software and communications equipment, could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security failures, regulatory compliance failures or other operational difficulties. the security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in or breach of kcs's information technology security systems, or those of its third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized access to its network could 14 table of contents disrupt kcs's business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase its costs and/or cause losses. kcs also confronts the risk that a terrorist or other third parties may seek to use its property, including kcs's information technology systems, to inflict major harm. kcs continually takes steps to make appropriate enhancements to its information technology systems; however, kcs's systems may be vulnerable to disruption, failure or unauthorized access which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic, weather or other conditions. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affects the businesses served by kcs. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs's customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. for example, global steel and petrochemical prices have decreased in the past, and reduced demand for automotive vehicles and related shipments may result in decreased prices. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company's consolidated financial statements. traffic congestion experienced in the u.s. or mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from mexico and adversely affect kcs's operations. this system congestion may also result in certain equipment shortages. any similar congestion experienced by railroads in mexico could have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. in addition, the growth of cross border traffic in recent years has contributed to congestion on the international bridge at the nuevo laredo-laredo border gateway, which is expected to continue in the near future. this may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company's operations may also be affected by natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. the company operates in and along the gulf of mexico, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions that could also adversely affect kcs's shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to climate change. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs's customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. 15 table of contents kcs is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is subject to credit risk including the risk that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. customers and counterparties that owe the company money may default on their obligations to the company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. although the company has procedures for reviewing its receivables and credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. some of the company's risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by the company. that information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, concerns about, or a default by, one customer or counterparty could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other customers or counterparties, which in turn could adversely affect the company. the company may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by its customers and counterparties. kcs's business is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including environmental, health, safety laws and regulations and tax that could require kcs to incur material costs or liabilities. kcs is subject to governmental regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to its railroad operations, including the department of transportation and the department of homeland security in the united states and the secretary of communications and transportation in mexico, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and other matters. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement positive train control (a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned) at certain locations (including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard movements occur or where passenger operations occur) by the end of 2015, which will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to invest significant amounts of money into new safety technology. kcs's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs's business. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company's best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. although the recorded liability is the best estimate of all probable costs, clean-up costs may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties' participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, accidental spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require kcs to incur costs or subject kcs to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company's mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject 16 table of contents to the laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm's facilities are located. the terms of kcsm's concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcs's consolidated financial statements. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm's concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. kcs is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and mexico. changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, and revisions of tax regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. although kcs believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits, claims or litigation could differ from what is reflected in kcs's income tax provisions and accruals. kcs, as a common carrier by rail, is required by united states and mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and applicable mexican laws, kcs's common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs's network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs's customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or tih) materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. any significant increase in the cost of fuel that is not adequately covered by fuel surcharges, or severe disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel requirements for its mexican operations almost exclusively through purchases at market prices from pemex refinaci n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration based on market prices. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated and kcsm is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. market fluctuations could adversely impact kcs's operating results as it hedges certain transactions. from time to time, kcs may use various financial instruments to reduce its exposure to various market risks, including interest rates, foreign currency, and fuel and commodity prices. while these financial instruments reduce the company's exposure to changes in market risks, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit the company's ability to benefit from favorable changes in underlying rates or prices due to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement. the loss of key personnel could negatively affect business. kcs's success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of the senior management team and the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. recruiting, motivating, and retaining qualified management personnel, particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are vital to operations and success. there is substantial competition for qualified management personnel and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. employment agreements with senior management are terminable at any time by either party. if kcs loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its ability to successfully implement its business plans and the value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected. 17 table of contents a majority of kcs's employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2011 , approximately 80% of kcsr's and kcsm's employees were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs's control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown; if other employees were to become unionized or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. kcs faces possible catastrophic loss and liability, and its insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to others. the operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property loss. in the course of kcs's operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. additionally, kcs's operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. the occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business, property damage and business interruption due to natural disasters. however, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. this insurance may not be sufficient to cover kcs's damages or damages to others, and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. in addition, kcs is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, kcs may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have an adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company's chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. these acts may also impact the company's ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs's rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs's property. in recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in mexico, including incidents involving kcsm's trains and infrastructure. other acts of violence or crime could also adversely affect the company's business. as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. kcs's ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm's operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcs's consolidated financial statements and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. 18 table of contents the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs's ability to obtain dollars or to convert pesos into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent kcs may have to effect those conversions, and could adversely affect the company's investment in kcsm. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. presidential and federal congress elections in mexico will be held in july 2012. the electoral process could lead to further friction among political parties and the executive branch officers, which could potentially cause political and economic tension. additionally, once the president and representatives are elected, changes in laws, public policies and government programs could be enacted, which could have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. mexican national politicians are currently focused on the 2012 elections as well as certain regional, political and social tensions, and reforms regarding fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security, and oil have not been and may not be approved. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the level and timing of kcs's mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economies or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements and the company's ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs's control, including increased government regulations in light of recent concerns regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company's control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. the indebtedness of kcsm exposes it to risks of exchange rate fluctuations because any devaluation of the peso would cause the cost of kcsm's dollar-denominated debt to increase and could place the company at a competitive disadvantage in mexico, compared to mexican competitors that have less dollar-denominated debt and greater operating and financial flexibility than kcsm. any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of kcsm's dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness. severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the u.s. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs's securities. 19 table of contents fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a devaluation of the peso would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and would increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the company's net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under mexican income tax law, and an appreciation of the peso would cause an increase in the company's reported income tax provision and effective income tax rate. mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future which could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may experience high inflation in the future. during most of the 1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. the annual rates of inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in the national consumer price index, as provided by banco de m xico, were 3.8% in 2011 , 4.4% in 2010 and 3.6% in 2009 . a substantial increase in the mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of kcsm's costs, which could adversely affect its consolidated financial statements. high levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between mexico and the united states, and other countries, which could adversely affect kcsm's consolidated financial statements. risk factors relating to ongoing litigation kcs is party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions arising in the ordinary course of business including those specifically mentioned below: kcsm is involved in several disputes with the sct, which if adversely resolved could have a negative impact on its consolidated financial statements. on july 23, 2008, the sct delivered notice to kcsm of proceedings against kcsm, claiming, among other things, that kcsm refused to grant ferromex access to certain trackage over which ferromex alleges it has trackage rights on six different occasions and thus denied ferromex the ability to provide service to a mexican subsidiary of a large u.s. auto manufacturer at this location. on august 13, 2008, kcsm filed a response to the sct. on july 15, 2010, the sct resolved to consolidate these six sanctioning proceedings into a single proceeding, determining that the actions that motivated the underlying claims constitute a single occasion. on august 19, 2010, ferromex filed an appeal and on december 28, 2011, it was dismissed by the federal court of appeals. kcsm believes it has defenses to the imposition of a sanction for the foregoing proceeding and is vigorously contesting these allegations. kcsm does not believe that the sct proceeding will have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. however, if kcsm is ultimately sanctioned by the sct for generic sanctions on five occasions over the term of the concession, kcsm could be subject to possible future sct action seeking revocation of the concession. revocation of the concession would materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness totaled $346.3 million and $307.4 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010 , respectively. the company's revolving credit facilities and term loan facilities contain variable rate debt that accrues interest based on target interest indexes (london interbank offered rate libor or an alternative base rate) plus an applicable spread. given the balance of $346.3 million of variable rate debt at december 31, 2011 , kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of $3.5 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2011 . based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of debt was approximately $1,741.3 million and $1,739.8 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010 , respectively, compared with a carrying value of $1,639.1 million and $1,639.7 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010 , respectively. commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2011 and 2010 , kcs did not have any outstanding fuel swap agreements. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs's overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2012 ; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company's control. assuming annual consumption of 130 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $13.0 million change in operating expenses. kcs is able to reduce the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers. foreign exchange sensitivity. while kcs's foreign subsidiaries use the u.s. dollar as their functional currency, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries' revenues and expenses are denominated in mexican pesos. based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations generally offset, with insignificant net impacts to operating income. the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar due to its net monetary assets that are denominated in mexican pesos. for example, a hypothetical 10% increase in the mexican peso to the u.s. dollar exchange rate on net peso denominated monetary assets of ps.835.3 million at december 31, 2011, would result in a foreign exchange loss of approximately $5.4 million, and a 10% decrease in the exchange rate would result in a foreign exchange gain of approximately $6.6 million. for income taxes paid in mexico, which are paid in mexican pesos, the revaluation of u.s. denominated amounts (primarily debt) into mexican pesos is taxed currently under mexican tax law. if the exchange rate used at the end of 2011 increased from ps. 14.0 per u.s. dollar to ps. 14.1 per u.s. dollar, income tax expense for the year ended december 31, 2011 would have decreased by approximately $2.0 million. 49 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors the price of kcs's common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they choose to or at prices they find attractive. the price of kcs's common stock on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), listed under the ticker symbol ksu , constantly changes. the company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate. the company's stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond kcs's control. these factors include, but are not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; developments generally affecting the railroad industry; announcements by kcs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings involving kcs; kcs's dividend policy and limitations on the payment of dividends; future sales of kcs's equity or equity-linked securities; the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock or convertible debt; and general domestic and international economic conditions including the availability of short- and long-term financing. in addition, from time to time the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of kcs's common stock. kcs's ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock may be limited. kcs has agreed in the past, and may agree in the future, to limitations on its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. in addition, to maintain its credit ratings, the company may be limited in its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock so that it can maintain an appropriate level of liquidity or debt. sales of substantial amounts of kcs's common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. as of december 31, 2012, there were 6,038,091 shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991 amended and restated stock option and performance award plan, the 2008 stock option and performance award plan and the 2009 employee stock purchase plan, and 1,909,898 shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors outside those plans. sales of common stock by employees upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and directors subject to compliance with rule 144 under the securities act, and sales of common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of kcs' common stock. 10 table of contents kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a controlling interest in kcs and that could deprive an investor of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of kcs's common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties, including provisions providing for a classified board. the bylaws provide that a stockholder must give the company advance written notice of its intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual meeting. these provisions may deprive kcs's stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company's domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, particularly union pacific railroad company ( up ) and bnsf railway company ( bnsf ) in the united states and ferromex and ferrosur in mexico, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs's rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs's freight services less competitive. kcs's ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs's failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads' access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. a central part of kcs's growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and kcs's inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government in june 1997, which is renewable for an additional period of up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for the first 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct, which is principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, has broad powers to monitor kcsm's compliance with the concession, and it can require kcsm to supply it with any technical, administrative and financial information it requests. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every five years. the sct treats kcsm's business plans confidentially. the sct also monitors kcsm's compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct reviews, and may amend, these standards every five years. 11 table of contents the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide the mexican government certain rights in its relationship with kcsm under the concession, including the right to take over the management of kcsm and its railroad in certain extraordinary cases, such as imminent danger to national security. in the past, the mexican government has used such power with respect to other privatized industries, including the telecommunications industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. in addition, under article 47 of the mexican railroad services law and its regulations, the sct, in consultation with cofeco, reserves the right to set service rates if it determines that effective competition does not exist in the mexican railroad industry. cofeco, however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is therefore unclear under what particular circumstances cofeco would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the sct intervenes and sets service rates, the rates it sets may be too low to allow kcsm to operate profitably. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm's rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, would remain kcsm's property. in the event of early termination, or total or partial revocation of the concession, the mexican government would have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the amount of the rent would be determined by experts appointed by kcsm and the mexican government. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after early termination or revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government would also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm's rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm's ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be made timely. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned on three distinct occasions for unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging tariffs higher than the tariffs it has registered with the sct. in addition, the sct may revoke the concession if, among other things, kcsm is sanctioned on five distinct occasions because kcsm restricts the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; kcsm fails to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; kcsm fails to comply with any term or condition of the mexican railroad services law and regulations or the concession; kcsm fails to make the capital investments required under its five-year business plan filed with the sct; or kcsm fails to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican railroad services law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the sct's approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm's surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm's liquidation or bankruptcy. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. revocation or termination of the concession would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would materially adversely affect the mexican operations and the ability to make payments on kcsm's debt as well as materially adversely affect the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs's rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs's ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties, and upon the performance of the obligations under the agreements by the other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial strength and 12 table of contents efficient performance of other railroads. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcsm's operations are subject to certain trackage rights, haulage rights and interline service agreements with another mexican rail carrier, some of which are in dispute. through kcsm's concession from the mexican government, kcsm is required to grant short and long distance trackage rights to ferromex. applicable law stipulates that ferromex similarly is required to grant to kcsm rights to use portions of their tracks. these trackage rights have been granted under the concession. the rates to be charged for use of the trackage rights after january 1, 2009, were agreed to by kcsm and ferromex pursuant to the trackage rights agreement, dated february 9, 2010. the trackage rights agreement did not establish rates that may be charged for the right to use the trackage rights for the periods beginning in 1998 through december 31, 2008. if kcsm cannot reach an agreement with ferromex for rates applicable for services provided prior to january 1, 2009, which are not subject to the trackage rights agreement, the sct is entitled to set the rates in accordance with mexican law and regulations, which rates may not adequately compensate kcsm. kcsm is currently involved in legal proceedings with the sct and discussions with ferromex regarding the amounts payable to each other for trackage rights, interline services and haulage rights for periods prior to january 1, 2009. certain of these disputes continue under litigation. any resolution of such procedures adverse to kcsm could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements in a particular quarter or fiscal year. kcs's flexibility to operate its business could be impacted by provisions in its debt obligations. kcs's debt instruments contain covenants which restrict or prohibit certain actions ( negative covenants ), including, but not limited to, kcs's ability to incur debt, create or suffer to exist liens, engage in mergers and consolidations and sell certain assets. the kcsm revolving credit facility contains additional negative covenants, including but not limited to, kcsm's ability to freely deploy proceeds in excess of pre-defined thresholds from insurance settlements or asset sales, make certain investments, engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates, or engage in sale-leaseback transactions. the first of the aforementioned additional negative covenants terminates upon conversion of kcsm's revolving credit facility from secured to unsecured upon kcsm's attainment of investment grade credit ratings from at least two of the three primary rating agencies. kcs's debt instruments also contain covenants requiring kcs to, among other things, maintain specified financial ratios ( affirmative covenants ). failure to comply with these negative and affirmative covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could restrict the company's access to liquidity and have a material adverse effect on the company's business or prospects. if the company does not have enough cash to service its debt or fund other liquidity needs, kcs may be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from lenders, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. kcs cannot assure that any of these remedies can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. a downturn in the debt capital markets or a downgrade of the company's credit ratings may increase the cost of borrowing and make financing difficult to obtain. events in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on the debt capital markets and, as a result, credit may become more expensive and difficult to obtain. lenders may impose more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there may be a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which kcs conducts business. also, the company and its securities are rated by standard &amp; poor's rating services ( s&amp;p ), moody's investors service ( moody's ) and fitch ratings ( fitch ). these ratings impact the company's cost of funds and its access to the debt capital markets. the negative impact of tightening credit markets, adverse changes in the debt capital markets generally and/or a downgrade of the company's credit ratings may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to finance capital expansion on favorable terms, if at all, reduced liquidity as a result of limited alternatives to refinance short-term debt, increased financing costs and/or financial terms with increasingly restrictive covenants. kcs's business is capital intensive. the company's business is capital intensive and requires substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things, additions and improvements to roadway, structures and technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of equipment and 13 table of contents the rail system. kcs's failure to make necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could impair its ability to serve existing customers, accommodate increases in traffic volumes or result in increased derailments. kcsm's concession from the mexican government requires kcsm to make investments and undertake capital projects. if kcsm fails to make such capital investments, kcsm's business plan commitments with the mexican government may be at risk, requiring kcsm to seek waivers of its business plan. there is no assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by the sct. kcsm may defer capital expenditures under its business plan with the permission of the sct. however, the sct might not grant this permission, and any failure by kcsm to comply with the capital investment commitments in its business plan could result in sanctions imposed by the sct, and could result in revocation of the concession if sanctions are imposed on five distinct occasions. the company cannot assure that the mexican government would grant any such permission or waiver. if such permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and kcsm is sanctioned, its concession might be at risk of revocation, which would materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. see kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances . kcs has funded, and expects to continue to fund capital expenditures with operating cash flows, debt and equipment leases. kcs may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure requirements. even if financing is available, it may not be obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to kcs's existing debt. kcs is dependent on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment. kcs relies on a limited number of suppliers of core rail equipment (including locomotives, rolling stock equipment, rail and ties). the capital intensive nature and complexity of such equipment creates high barriers of entry for any potential new suppliers. if any of kcs's suppliers discontinue production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this could result in increased costs or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs depends on the stability, availability and security of its information technology systems to operate its business. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software and communications equipment, could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security failures, regulatory compliance failures or other operational difficulties. the security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in or breach of kcs's information technology security systems, or those of its third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized access to its network could disrupt kcs's business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase its costs and/or cause losses. kcs also confronts the risk that a terrorist or other third parties may seek to use its property, including kcs's information technology systems, to inflict major harm. kcs continually takes steps to make appropriate enhancements to its information technology systems; however, kcs's systems may be vulnerable to disruption, failure or unauthorized access which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic, weather or other conditions. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affects the businesses served by kcs. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs's customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn in these industries could have a 14 table of contents material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company's consolidated financial statements. traffic congestion experienced in the u.s. or mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from mexico and adversely affect kcs's operations. this system congestion may also result in certain equipment shortages. any similar congestion experienced by railroads in mexico could have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. in addition, the growth of cross border traffic in recent years has contributed to congestion on the international bridge at the nuevo laredo-laredo border gateway, which is expected to continue in the near future. this may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company's operations may also be affected by natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. the company operates in and along the gulf of mexico, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions that could also adversely affect kcs's shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to climate change. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs's customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is subject to credit risk including the risk that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. customers and counterparties that owe the company money may default on their obligations to the company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. although the company has procedures for reviewing its credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. some of the company's risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by the company. that information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, concerns about, or a default by, one customer or counterparty could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other customers or counterparties, which in turn could adversely affect the company. the company may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by its customers and counterparties. kcs's business is subject to legislation enacted by congress and state legislatures, and is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including environmental, health, safety laws, and regulations and tax that could require kcs to incur material costs or liabilities. kcs is subject to legislation enacted by congress and by state legislatures, and is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to railroad operations including the u.s. department of transportation, surface transportation board, federal railroad administration, environmental protection agency, department of homeland security and others in the united states, the sct in mexico, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and other matters. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. 15 table of contents additional or new economic regulation by congress or by the surface transportation board in current or future proceedings could change the regulatory framework within which the company operates which could materially change the company's business and have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement positive train control (a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned) at certain locations (including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard movements occur or where passenger operations occur) by the end of 2015, which will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to make significant investments in new safety technology. kcs's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs's business. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company's best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. although the recorded liability is the best estimate of all probable costs, clean-up costs may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties' participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, accidental spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require kcs to incur costs or subject kcs to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company's mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm's facilities are located. the terms of kcsm's concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcs's consolidated financial statements. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm's concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. kcs is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and mexico. changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, and revisions of tax regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. additionally, the final determination of tax audits, claims or litigation could differ from what is reflected in kcs's financial statements. 16 table of contents kcs, as a common carrier by rail, is required by united states and mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and applicable mexican laws, kcs's common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs's network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs's customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or tih) materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of the company's insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. any significant increase in the cost of fuel that is not adequately covered by fuel surcharges, or severe disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel requirements for its mexican operations almost exclusively through purchases at market prices from pemex refinaci n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration based on market prices. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated and kcsm is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. market fluctuations could adversely impact kcs's operating results as it hedges certain transactions. from time to time, kcs may use various financial instruments to reduce its exposure to various market risks, including interest rates, foreign currency, and fuel and commodity prices. while these financial instruments reduce the company's exposure to changes in market risks, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit the company's ability to benefit from favorable changes in underlying rates or prices due to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement. the loss of key personnel could negatively affect business. kcs's success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of the senior management team and the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. recruiting, motivating, and retaining qualified management personnel, particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are vital to operations and success. there is substantial competition for qualified management personnel and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. employment agreements with senior management are terminable at any time by either party. if kcs loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its ability to successfully implement its business plans and the value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected. a majority of kcs's employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2012 , approximately 80% of kcsr and kcsm servicios employees were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs's control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown; if other employees were to become unionized or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and 17 table of contents higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. kcs faces possible catastrophic loss and liability, and its insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to others. the operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property loss. in the course of kcs's operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. additionally, kcs's operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. the occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business, property damage and business interruption due to natural disasters. however, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. this insurance may not be sufficient to cover kcs's damages or damages to others, and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. in addition, kcs is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, kcs may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have an adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company's chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. these acts may also impact the company's ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs's rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs's property. in recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in mexico, including incidents involving kcsm's trains and infrastructure. other acts of violence or crime could also adversely affect the company's business. as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. kcs's ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm's operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcs's consolidated financial statements and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs's ability to obtain u.s. dollars or to convert mexican pesos ( pesos or ps. ) into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent kcs may have to effect those conversions, and could adversely affect the company's investment in kcsm. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. 18 table of contents presidential and federal congress elections in mexico were held resulting in a change in administration in december 2012. kcsm cannot predict whether changes in mexican government policy will result from the change in administration; however, changes in laws, public policies and government programs could be enacted, which could have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. mexican national politicians are currently focused on certain regional, political and social tensions, and reforms regarding fiscal policies, gas, electricity, social security, and oil have not been and may not be approved. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the level and timing of kcs's mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economies or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements and the company's ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs's control, including increased government regulations in light of recent concerns regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company's control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the u.s. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs's securities. fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a devaluation of the peso would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and would increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the company's net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under mexican income tax law, and an appreciation of the peso would cause an increase in the company's reported income tax provision and effective income tax rate. mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future which could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may experience high inflation in the future. during most of the 1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. the annual rates of inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in the national consumer price index, as provided by banco de m xico, were 3.6% in 2012 , 3.8% in 2011 and 4.4% in 2010 . a substantial increase in the mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of kcsm's costs, which could adversely affect its consolidated financial statements. high levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between mexico and the united states, and other countries, which could adversely affect kcsm's consolidated financial statements. 19 table of contents kcs may be subject to various claims and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company may be exposed to the potential of various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness totaled $543.8 million and $346.3 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. the company's revolving credit facilities and term loan facilities contain variable rate debt that accrues interest based on target interest indexes (london interbank offered rate libor or an alternative base rate) plus an applicable spread. the company has an aggregate notional amount of $304.5 million of interest rate hedges at december 31, 2012 , which effectively convert interest payments from variable rates to fixed rates. considering the balance of $239.3 million of variable rate debt at december 31, 2012 , kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of $2.4 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2012 . the company determines fair values of its derivative financial instruments based upon pricing models using inputs from actively quoted markets. pricing models take into consideration the contract terms as well as other inputs, including forward interest rate curves. considering the outstanding derivative instruments fair value liability of $0.9 million at december 31, 2012 , the company is sensitive to fluctuations in forward interest rate curves. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in the one-month libor forward interest rate curve would result in a fair value asset of the derivative financial instruments of approximately $2.0 million as of december 31, 2012 . based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of debt was approximately $1,719.9 million and $1,741.3 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively, compared with a carrying value of $1,607.8 million and $1,639.1 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , kcs did not have any outstanding fuel swap agreements. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs's overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2013 ; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company's control. assuming annual consumption of 125 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel 49 table of contents would cause a $12.5 million change in operating expenses. kcs is able to mitigate the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers. foreign exchange sensitivity. while kcs's foreign subsidiaries use the u.s. dollar as their functional currency, however, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries' revenues and expenses are denominated in mexican pesos. based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations generally offset, with insignificant net impacts to operating income. the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar due to its net monetary assets that are denominated in mexican pesos. if the exchange rate used at december 31, 2012 , increased from ps. 13.0 per u.s. dollar to ps. 14.0 per u.s. dollar on net peso denominated monetary assets of ps.933.0 million, it would have result in an additional foreign exchange loss of approximately $5.1 million, and a decrease in the exchange rate from ps. 13.0 per u.s. dollar to ps. 12.0 per u.s. dollar would have result in an additional foreign exchange gain of approximately $6.0 million. for income taxes paid in mexico, which are paid in mexican pesos, the effect of the revaluation of u.s. denominated amounts (primarily debt) into mexican pesos is taxed currently under mexican tax law. if the exchange rate used at the end of 2012 increased from ps. 13.0 per u.s. dollar to ps. 14.0 per u.s. dollar, income tax expense for the year ended december 31, 2012 would have decreased by approximately $24.3 million. if the exchange rate used at the end of 2012 decreased to ps.12.0 per u.s. dollar, income tax expense for the year ended december 31, 2012 , would have increased by approximately $28.6 million. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors the price of kcs's common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they choose to or at prices they find attractive. the price of kcs's common stock on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), listed under the ticker symbol ksu , constantly changes. the company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate. the company's stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond kcs's control. these factors include, but are not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; developments generally affecting the railroad industry; announcements by kcs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings involving kcs; kcs's dividend policy and limitations on the payment of dividends; future sales of kcs's equity or equity-linked securities; general domestic and international economic conditions including the availability of short- and long-term financing. in addition, from time to time the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of kcs's common stock. kcs's ability to continue to pay cash dividends on its common stock may be limited. kcs has agreed in the past, and may agree in the future, to limitations on its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. while kcs is currently paying dividends, there can be no assurance that it will continue to do so in the future. sales of substantial amounts of kcs's common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. as of december 31, 2013 , there were 5,802,586 shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991 amended and restated stock option and performance award plan, the 2008 stock option and performance award plan and the 2009 employee stock purchase plan, and 1,342,025 shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors outside those plans. sales of common stock by employees upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and directors subject to compliance with rule 144 under the securities act, and sales of common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of kcs' common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a controlling interest in kcs and that could deprive an investor of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of kcs's common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties, including provisions providing for a classified board. the bylaws provide that a stockholder must give the company advance written notice of its intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual meeting. these provisions may deprive kcs's stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company's domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, particularly union pacific railroad company ( up ) and bnsf railway company ( bnsf ) in the united states and ferromex and ferrosur in 10 table of contents mexico, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs's rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs's freight services less competitive. kcs's ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs's failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads' access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. a central part of kcs's growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and kcs's inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government until june 2047, which is renewable for an additional period of up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for the first 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct, which is principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, has broad powers to monitor kcsm's compliance with the concession, and it can require kcsm to supply it with any technical, administrative and financial information it requests. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every five years. the sct treats kcsm's business plans confidentially. the sct also monitors kcsm's compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct reviews, and may amend, these standards every five years. the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide the mexican government certain rights in its relationship with kcsm under the concession, including the right to take over the management of kcsm and its railroad in certain extraordinary cases, such as imminent danger to national security. in the past, the mexican government has used such power with respect to other privatized industries, including the telecommunications industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. in addition, under article 47 of the mexican railroad services law and its regulations, the sct, in consultation with the comisi n federal de competencia econ mica (mexican antitrust commission or cfce ), reserves the right to set service rates if it determines that effective competition does not exist in the mexican railroad industry. cfce, however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is therefore unclear under what particular circumstances cfce would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the sct intervenes and sets service rates, the rates it sets may be too low to allow kcsm to operate profitably. 11 table of contents under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm's rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, would remain kcsm's property. in the event of early termination, or total or partial revocation of the concession, the mexican government would have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the amount of rent would be determined by experts appointed by kcsm and the mexican government. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after early termination or revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government would also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm's rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm's ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be made timely. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned on three distinct occasions for unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging rates higher than those it has registered with the sct. in addition, the sct may revoke the concession if, among other things, kcsm is sanctioned on five distinct occasions as a result of the following circumstances: (a) kcsm restricts the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; (b) kcsm fails to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; (c) kcsm fails to comply with any term or condition of the mexican railroad services law and regulations or the concession; (d) kcsm fails to make the capital investments required under its five-year business plan filed with the sct; or (e) kcsm fails to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican railroad services law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the sct's approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm's surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm's liquidation or bankruptcy. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. revocation or termination of the concession would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would materially adversely affect the mexican operations and the ability to make payments on kcsm's debt as well as materially adversely affect the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs's rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs's ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties, and upon the performance of the obligations under the agreements by the other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial strength and efficient performance of other railroads. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcsm's operations are subject to certain trackage rights, haulage rights and interline service agreements with another mexican rail carrier, some of which are in dispute. through kcsm's concession from the mexican government, kcsm is required to grant short and long distance trackage rights to ferromex. applicable law stipulates that ferromex similarly is required to grant to kcsm rights to use portions of its tracks. these trackage rights have been granted under the concession. the rates to be charged for use of the trackage rights after january 1, 2009, were agreed to by kcsm and ferromex pursuant to the trackage rights agreement, dated february 9, 12 table of contents 2010. the trackage rights agreement did not establish rates that may be charged for the right to use the trackage rights for the periods beginning in 1998 through december 31, 2008. if kcsm cannot reach an agreement with ferromex for rates applicable for services provided prior to january 1, 2009, which are not subject to the trackage rights agreement, the sct is entitled to set the rates in accordance with mexican law and regulations, which rates may not adequately compensate kcsm. kcsm is currently involved in legal proceedings with the sct and discussions with ferromex regarding the amounts payable to each other for trackage rights, interline services and haulage rights for periods prior to january 1, 2009. certain of these disputes continue under litigation. any resolution of such procedures adverse to kcsm could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements in a particular quarter or fiscal year. kcs's flexibility to operate its business could be impacted by provisions in its debt obligations. kcs's debt instruments contain covenants which restrict or prohibit certain actions ( negative covenants ), including, but not limited to, kcs's ability to incur debt, create or suffer to exist liens, engage in mergers and consolidations and sell certain assets. the kcsm revolving credit facility contains additional negative covenants, including but not limited to, kcsm's ability to make certain investments, engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates, or engage in sale-leaseback transactions. kcs's debt instruments also contain covenants requiring kcs to, among other things, maintain specified financial ratios ( affirmative covenants ). failure to comply with these negative and affirmative covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could restrict the company's access to liquidity and have a material adverse effect on the company's business or prospects. if the company does not have enough cash to service its debt or fund other liquidity needs, kcs may be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from lenders, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. kcs cannot assure that any of these remedies can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. a downturn in the debt capital markets or a downgrade of the company's credit ratings may increase the cost of borrowing and make financing difficult to obtain. events in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on the debt capital markets and, as a result, credit may become more expensive and difficult to obtain. lenders may impose more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there may be a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which kcs conducts business. also, the company and its securities are rated by standard &amp; poor's rating services ( s&amp;p ), moody's investors service ( moody's ) and fitch ratings ( fitch ). these ratings impact the company's cost of funds and its access to the debt capital markets. the negative impact of tightening credit markets, adverse changes in the debt capital markets generally and/or a downgrade of the company's credit ratings may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to finance capital expansion on favorable terms, if at all, reduced liquidity as a result of limited alternatives to refinance short-term debt, increased financing costs and/or financial terms with increasingly restrictive covenants. kcs's business is capital intensive. the company's business is capital intensive and requires substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things, additions and improvements to roadway, equipment, structures and technology and maintenance of equipment and the rail system. kcs's failure to make necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could impair its ability to serve existing customers, accommodate increases in traffic volumes or result in increased derailments. kcsm's concession from the mexican government requires kcsm to make investments and undertake capital projects. if kcsm fails to make such capital investments, kcsm's business plan commitments with the mexican government may be at risk, requiring kcsm to seek waivers of its business plan. there is no assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by the sct. kcsm may defer capital expenditures under its business plan with the permission of the sct. however, the sct might not grant this permission, and any failure by kcsm to comply with the capital investment commitments in its business plan could result in sanctions imposed by the sct, and could result in revocation of the concession if sanctions are imposed on five distinct occasions. the company cannot assure that the mexican government would grant any such permission or waiver. if such permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and kcsm is sanctioned, its concession might be at risk of revocation, which would materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. see kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances . 13 table of contents kcs has funded, and expects to continue to fund capital expenditures with operating cash flows, debt and equipment leases. kcs may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure requirements. even if financing is available, it may not be obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to kcs's existing debt. kcs is dependent on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment. kcs relies on a limited number of suppliers of core rail equipment (including locomotives, rolling stock equipment, rail and ties). the capital intensive nature and complexity of such equipment creates high barriers of entry for any potential new suppliers. if any of kcs's suppliers discontinue production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this could result in increased costs or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs depends on the stability, availability and security of its information technology systems to operate its business. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software and communications equipment, could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security failures, regulatory compliance failures or other operational difficulties. the security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in or breach of kcs's information technology security systems, or those of its third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized access to its network could disrupt kcs's business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase its costs and/or cause losses. kcs also confronts the risk that a terrorist or other third parties may seek to use its property, including kcs's information technology systems, to inflict major harm. kcs continually takes steps to make appropriate enhancements to its information technology systems; however, kcs's systems may be vulnerable to disruption, failure or unauthorized access which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic, weather or other conditions. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affects the businesses served by kcs. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs's customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company's consolidated financial statements. traffic congestion experienced in the u.s. or mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from mexico and adversely affect kcs's operations. this system congestion may also result in certain equipment shortages. any similar congestion experienced by railroads in mexico could have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. in addition, the growth of cross border traffic in recent years has contributed to congestion on the international bridge at the nuevo laredo-laredo border gateway, which is expected to continue in the near future. this may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company's operations may also be affected by natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. the company operates in and along the gulf of mexico, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme 14 table of contents weather conditions that could also adversely affect kcs's shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to climate change. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs's customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is subject to credit risk, including the risk that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. customers and counterparties that owe the company money may default on their obligations to the company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. although the company has procedures for reviewing its credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. some of the company's risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by the company. that information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, concerns about, or a default by, one customer or counterparty could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other customers or counterparties, which in turn could adversely affect the company. the company may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by its customers and counterparties. kcs's business is subject to legislation enacted by congress and state legislatures, and is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including environmental, health, safety and tax laws, and regulations that could require kcs to incur material costs or liabilities. kcs is subject to legislation enacted by congress and by state legislatures in the u.s, and mexico, and is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to railroad operations including the u.s. department of transportation, surface transportation board, federal railroad administration, environmental protection agency, department of homeland security and others in the united states, the sct in mexico, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and other matters. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. additional or new economic regulation by congress, the surface transportation board in the u.s. or the sct in mexico in current or future proceedings could change the regulatory framework within which the company operates which could materially change the company's business and have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. in mexico, legislation was introduced in 2013 in the house of deputies to amend certain provisions in the mexican regulatory railroad service law. this legislation received approval in the transportation committee of the mexican house of deputies on december 5, 2013, but was not taken up by the full house of deputies before its adjournment on december 12, 2013. the legislation was published in the official record of the mexican house of deputies on december 11, 2013. this legislation may be presented to the full house of deputies for consideration when it reconvenes on february 1, 2014. the proposed amendments, if ultimately adopted as introduced, could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. 15 table of contents in the u.s. and in response to recent accidents involving the transportation of energy products by rail, u.s. rail and petroleum industry leaders met with the secretary of the u.s. department of transportation in january 2014 to discuss voluntary actions to improve the transportation of energy products by rail. additionally, in august 2013, the fra issued emergency order 28 implementing new operating rules governing the transportation of energy products by rail. any proposed new regulations or continued operating practice changes by u.s. railroads related to the transportation of energy products by rail, if ultimately adopted, could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement ptc (a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned) at certain locations (including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard movements occur or where passenger operations occur) by the end of 2015, which will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to make significant investments in new safety technology. the u.s. rail industry, including kcs, has publicly stated it does not currently believe that ptc can be fully implemented by december 31, 2015 due to the many difficulties developing and deploying this interoperable technology across the u.s. rail system. kcs, along with other class i railroads in the united states, is working with the fra and congress to seek an extension of the deadline for implementing ptc. kcs's failure to meet the deadline, including any extension, could result in fines or penalties and could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs's business. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company's best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. although the recorded liability is the best estimate of all probable costs, clean-up costs may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties' participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, accidental spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require kcs to incur costs or subject kcs to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company's mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm's facilities are located. the terms of kcsm's concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcs's consolidated financial statements. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm's concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. 16 table of contents kcs is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and mexico. changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, and revisions of tax regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. additionally, the final determination of tax audits, claims or litigation could differ from what is reflected in kcs's financial statements. kcs, as a common carrier by rail, is required by united states and mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and applicable mexican laws, kcs's common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs's network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs's customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or tih) materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of the company's insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. any significant increase in the cost of fuel that is not adequately covered by fuel surcharges, or severe disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel requirements for its mexican operations through purchases at market prices from pemex refinaci n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration based on market prices. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated and kcsm is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. market fluctuations could adversely impact kcs's operating results as it hedges certain transactions. from time to time, kcs may use various financial instruments to reduce its exposure to various market risks, including interest rates, foreign currency, and fuel and commodity prices. while these financial instruments reduce the company's exposure to changes in market risks, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit the company's ability to benefit from favorable changes in underlying rates or prices due to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement. the loss of key personnel could negatively affect business. kcs's success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of the senior management team and the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. recruiting, motivating, and retaining qualified management personnel, particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are vital to operations and success. there is substantial competition for qualified management personnel and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. employment agreements with senior management are terminable at any time by either party. if kcs loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its ability to successfully implement its business plans and the value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected. a majority of kcs's employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 80% of kcsr and kcsm servicios employees were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on 17 table of contents an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs's control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown; if other employees were to become unionized or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. kcs faces possible catastrophic loss and liability, and its insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to others. the operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property loss. in the course of kcs's operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. additionally, kcs's operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. the occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice and in compliance with the requirements of the concession against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business, property damage and business interruption due to natural disasters. however, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. this insurance may not be sufficient to cover kcs's damages or damages to others, and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. in addition, kcs is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, kcs may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have an adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company's chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. these acts may also impact the company's ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs's rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs's property. in recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in mexico, including incidents involving kcsm's trains and infrastructure. other acts of violence or crime could also adversely affect the company's business. as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. kcs's ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm's operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcs's consolidated financial statements and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs's ability to obtain u.s. dollars or to convert mexican pesos ( pesos or ps. ) into dollars for purposes of making interest 18 table of contents and principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent kcs may have to effect those conversions, and could adversely affect the company's investment in kcsm. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. federal elections in mexico were held in 2012, resulting in a change in administration. kcsm cannot predict whether changes in mexican government policy will result from the change in administration; however, changes in laws, public policies and government programs could be enacted, which could have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. mexican politicians are currently focused on certain regional, political and social tensions, and reforms regarding energy, fiscal, social security, education and political policies. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the level and timing of kcs's mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economies or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements and the company's ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs's control, including increased government regulations in light of recent concerns regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company's control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. severe weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the u.s. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs's securities. fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and would increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the company's net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under mexican income tax law, and a strengthening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause an increase in the company's cash tax obligation and effective income tax rate. mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future which could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may experience high inflation in the future. during most of the 1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. the annual rates of inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in the national consumer price index, as provided by banco de m xico, were 4.0% in 2013 , 3.6% in 2012 and 3.8% in 2011 . a substantial increase in the mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing 19 table of contents some of kcsm's costs, which could adversely affect its consolidated financial statements. high levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between mexico and the united states, and other countries, which could adversely affect kcsm's consolidated financial statements. kcs may be subject to various claims and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company may be exposed to the potential of various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 other matters litigation. the company is a party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions, all of which are of an ordinary, routine nature and incidental to its operations. included in these proceedings are various tort claims brought by current and former employees for job related injuries and by third parties for injuries related to railroad operations. kcs aggressively defends these matters and has established liability provisions that management believes are adequate to cover expected costs. although it is not possible to predict the outcome of any legal proceeding, in the opinion of the company's management, other than those proceedings described in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, such proceedings and actions should not, individually, or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. inflation. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require the use of historical cost, which does not reflect the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property. due to the capital intensive nature of kcs's business, the replacement cost of these assets would be significantly higher than the amounts reported under the historical cost basis. recent accounting pronouncements. refer to note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for information relative to recent accounting pronouncements. 51 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness totaled $495.3 million and $543.8 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. the company's revolving credit facilities, term loan facilities and floating rate senior notes contain variable rate debt that accrues interest based on target interest indexes (london interbank offered rate libor or an alternative base rate) plus an applicable spread. the company has an aggregate notional amount of $151.1 million of interest rate hedges at december 31, 2013 , which effectively convert interest payments from variable rates to fixed rates. considering the net balance of $344.2 million of variable rate debt at december 31, 2013 , kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of $3.4 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2013 . based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of debt was approximately $2,082.9 million and $1,719.9 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, compared with a carrying value of $2,188.9 million and $1,607.8 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , kcs did not have any outstanding fuel swap agreements. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs's overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2014 ; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company's control. assuming annual consumption of 127 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $12.7 million change in operating expenses. kcs is able to mitigate the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcs's foreign subsidiaries use the u.s. dollar as their functional currency; however, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries' revenues and expenses are denominated in mexican pesos. based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations generally offset, with insignificant net impacts to operating income. the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar due to its net monetary assets that are denominated in mexican pesos. the company had ps.647.2 million of net monetary assets at december 31, 2013 . the following table presents an estimate of the impact to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical one mexican peso change in the exchange rate at december 31, 2013 : hypothetical change in exchange rate amount of gain (loss) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income net monetary assets denominated in mexican pesos at december 31, 2013: ps.647.2 million from ps.13.1 to ps.14.1 ($3.5 million) foreign exchange gain (loss) ps.647.2 million from ps.13.1 to ps.12.1 $4.1 million foreign exchange gain (loss) mexican income taxes are paid in mexican pesos, and as a result, the effective income tax rate reflects fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. most significantly, any gain or loss from the revaluation of net u.s. dollar- 52 table of contents denominated monetary liabilities (primarily debt) into mexican pesos is included in mexican taxable income under mexican tax law. as a result, a strengthening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally increase the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective income tax rate, and a weakening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally decrease the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective tax rate. the following table presents an estimate of the impact to the effective income tax rate and income tax expense that would result from a hypothetical one mexican peso change in the exchange rate at december 31, 2013: hypothetical change in exchange rate increase (decrease) in effective income tax rate amount of expense (benefit) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income from ps.13.1 to ps.14.1 (5.8%) ($31.9 million) income tax expense from ps.13.1 to ps.12.1 6.7% $36.8 million income tax expense during january 2014, the company entered into foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $345.0 million to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. these contracts mature on december 31, 2014 , and obligate the company to purchase a total of ps.4,642.5 million at a weighted average exchange rate of ps.13.46 to each u.s. dollar. the company has not designated these foreign currency forward contracts as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the foreign currency forward contracts will be measured at fair value each period and any change in fair value will be recognized in foreign exchange gain (loss) within the consolidated statements of income. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors the price of kcs's common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they choose to or at prices they find attractive. the price of kcs's common stock on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), listed under the ticker symbol ksu , constantly changes. the company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate. the company's stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond kcs's control. these factors include, but are not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; developments generally affecting the railroad industry; announcements by kcs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings involving kcs; kcs's dividend policy and limitations on the payment of dividends; future sales of kcs's equity or equity-linked securities; general domestic and international economic conditions including the availability of short and long-term financing. in addition, from time to time the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of kcs's common stock. kcs's ability to continue to pay cash dividends on its common stock may be limited. kcs has agreed in the past, and may agree in the future, to limitations on its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. while kcs is currently paying dividends, there can be no assurance that it will continue to do so in the future. sales of substantial amounts of kcs's common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. as of december 31, 2014 , there were 5,517,716 shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991 amended and restated stock option and performance award plan, the 2008 stock option and performance award plan and the 2009 employee stock purchase plan, and 1,405,169 shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors outside those plans. sales of common stock by employees upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and directors, and sales of common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of kcs' common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a controlling interest in kcs and that could deprive an investor of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of kcs's common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties. the bylaws provide that a stockholder must give the company advance written notice of its intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual meeting. these provisions may deprive kcs's stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company's domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, particularly union pacific railroad company ( up ) and bnsf railway company ( bnsf ) in the united states and ferromex and ferrosur in mexico, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs's rail competitors are much 10 table of contents larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs's freight services less competitive. kcs's ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs's failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads' access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. a key part of kcs's growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and kcs's inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government until june 2047, which is renewable for an additional period of up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for the first 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct, which is principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, has broad powers to monitor kcsm's compliance with the concession, and it can require kcsm to supply it with any technical, administrative and financial information it requests. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every five years. the sct treats kcsm's business plans confidentially. the sct also monitors kcsm's compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct reviews, and may amend, these standards every five years. the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide the mexican government certain rights in its relationship with kcsm under the concession, including the right to take over the management of kcsm and its railroad in certain extraordinary cases, such as imminent danger to national security. in the past, the mexican government has used such power with respect to other privatized industries, including the telecommunications industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. in addition, under article 47 of the mexican railroad services law and its regulations, if the comisi n federal de competencia econ mica (mexican antitrust commission or cfce ) determines that effective competition does not exist, then the sct has authority to set rates. cfce, however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is, therefore, unclear under what particular circumstances cfce would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the sct intervenes and sets service rates, the rates it sets may negatively impact profitability. 11 table of contents under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm's rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, would remain kcsm's property. in the event of early termination, or total or partial revocation of the concession, the mexican government would have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the amount of rent would be determined by experts appointed by kcsm and the mexican government. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after early termination or revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government would also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm's rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm's ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be made timely. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned on a specified number of occasions for any of the following: unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging rates higher than those it has registered with the sct; restricting the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; failing to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; failing to comply with any term or condition of the mexican railroad services law and regulations or the concession; failing to make the capital investments required under its five-year business plan filed with the sct; or failing to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican railroad services law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the sct's approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm's surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm's liquidation or bankruptcy. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. revocation or termination of the concession would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would materially adversely affect the mexican operations and the ability to make payments on kcsm's debt as well as materially adversely affect the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs's rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs's ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties, and upon the performance of the obligations under the agreements by the other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial strength and efficient performance of other railroads. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcsm's operations are subject to certain trackage rights, haulage rights and interline service agreements with another mexican rail carrier, some of which are in dispute. through kcsm's concession from the mexican government, kcsm is required to grant short and long distance trackage rights to ferromex. applicable law stipulates that ferromex similarly is required to grant to kcsm rights to use portions of its tracks. these trackage rights have been granted under the concession. the rates to be charged for use of the trackage rights after january 1, 2009, were agreed to by kcsm and ferromex pursuant to the trackage rights agreement, dated february 9, 2010. the trackage rights agreement did not establish rates that may be charged for the right to use the trackage rights for the periods beginning in 1998 through december 31, 2008. 12 table of contents if kcsm cannot reach an agreement with ferromex for rates applicable for services provided prior to january 1, 2009, which are not subject to the trackage rights agreement, the sct is entitled to set the rates in accordance with mexican law and regulations, which rates may not adequately compensate kcsm. kcsm is currently involved in legal proceedings with the sct regarding the amounts payable to ferromex for trackage rights, interline services and haulage rights for periods prior to january 1, 2009. certain of these disputes continue under litigation. any resolution of such procedures adverse to kcsm could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements in a particular quarter or fiscal year. a downturn in the debt capital markets or a downgrade of the company's credit ratings may increase the cost of borrowing and make financing difficult to obtain. events in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on the debt capital markets and, as a result, credit may become more expensive and difficult to obtain. lenders may impose more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there may be a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which kcs conducts business. also, the company and its securities are rated by standard &amp; poor's rating services ( s&amp;p ), moody's investors service ( moody's ) and fitch ratings ( fitch ). these ratings impact the company's cost of funds and its access to the debt capital markets. the negative impact of tightening credit markets, adverse changes in the debt capital markets generally and/or a downgrade of the company's credit ratings may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to finance capital expansion on favorable terms, if at all, reduced liquidity as a result of limited alternatives to refinance short-term debt, increased financing costs and/or financial terms with increasingly restrictive covenants. kcs's business is capital intensive. the company's business is capital intensive and requires substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things, additions and improvements to roadway, equipment, structures and technology and maintenance of equipment and the rail system. kcs's failure to make necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could impair its ability to serve existing customers, accommodate increases in traffic volumes or result in increased derailments. kcsm's concession from the mexican government requires kcsm to make investments and undertake capital projects. if kcsm fails to make such capital investments, kcsm's business plan commitments with the mexican government may be at risk, requiring kcsm to seek waivers of its business plan. there is no assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by the sct. kcsm may defer capital expenditures under its business plan with the permission of the sct. however, the sct might not grant this permission, and any failure by kcsm to comply with the capital investment commitments in its business plan could result in sanctions imposed by the sct, and could result in revocation of the concession if sanctions are imposed on a specified number of occasions. the company cannot assure that the mexican government would grant any such permission or waiver. if such permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and kcsm is sanctioned, its concession might be at risk of revocation, which would materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. see kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances. kcs has funded, and expects to continue to fund capital expenditures with operating cash flows, short and long-term debt and equipment leases. kcs may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure requirements. even if financing is available, it may not be obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to kcs's existing debt. kcs is dependent on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment. kcs relies on a limited number of suppliers of core rail equipment (including locomotives, rolling stock equipment, rail and ties). the capital intensive nature and complexity of such equipment creates high barriers of entry for any potential new suppliers. if any of kcs's suppliers discontinue production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this could result in increased costs or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs depends on the stability, availability and security of its information technology systems to operate its business. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software and communications equipment, could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security failures, regulatory compliance failures or other operational difficulties. 13 table of contents the security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in or breach of kcs's information technology security systems, or those of its third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized access to its network could disrupt kcs's business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase its costs and/or cause losses. kcs also confronts the risk that a terrorist or other third parties may seek to use its property, including kcs's information technology systems, to inflict major harm. kcs continually takes steps to make appropriate enhancements to its information technology systems; however, kcs's systems may be vulnerable to disruption, failure or unauthorized access which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic, weather or other conditions. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affects the businesses served by kcs. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs's customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the energy, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn or change in government policy in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company's consolidated financial statements. the company's operations may also be affected by natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. the company operates in and along the gulf of mexico, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions that could also adversely affect kcs's shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to climate change. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs's customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is subject to credit risk, including the risk that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. customers and counterparties that owe the company money may default on their obligations to the company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. although the company has procedures for reviewing its credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or 14 table of contents circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. some of the company's risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by the company. that information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, concerns about, or a default by, one customer or counterparty could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other customers or counterparties, which in turn could adversely affect the company. the company may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by its customers and counterparties. kcs's business is subject to legislation enacted by congress and state legislatures, and is subject to regulation by federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including environmental, health, safety and tax laws, and regulations that could require kcs to incur material costs or liabilities. kcs is subject to legislation enacted by federal or state legislatures in the u.s. and mexico, and is subject to regulation by federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to railroad operations including the u.s. department of transportation, surface transportation board, federal railroad administration, environmental protection agency, department of homeland security and others in the united states, the sct in mexico, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and other matters. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. as an example, various proposals submitted to the stb for consideration could have a negative impact on kcs's ability to negotiate prices for rail services and affect competition among rail carriers, which could result in a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. additional or new economic regulation by the u.s. congress or the surface transportation board in the u.s. or by the mexican congress of the union or the sct (or other agencies) in mexico in current or future proceedings could change the regulatory framework within which the company operates which could materially change the company's business and have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. in mexico, proposed legislation was introduced in 2013 in the house of deputies to amend certain provisions in the mexican regulatory railroad service law. in february 2014, this proposed legislation was approved by the mexican house of deputies and was sent to the mexican senate. on december 14, 2014, the mexican senate passed a revised version of the house of deputies' bill, and on december 15, 2014, the house of deputies passed the bill as amended by the senate. on january 26, 2015, the bill was published in the official federal gazette ( diario oficial de la federacion ) and became law. it is too early to determine at this time how this legislation would be implemented and interpreted and thus what, if any, effect the rail legislation could have on the mexican railroad industry and its customers. in may 2014, new mexican antitrust legislation was approved and became effective on july 7, 2014. this new law replaces antitrust law that had been effective since 1993. while the company continues to evaluate the mexican government's implementation of this legislation, the company does not believe it will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. in response to several accidents involving the transportation of energy products by rail, u.s. rail and petroleum industry leaders met with the secretary of the u.s. department of transportation in january 2014 to discuss voluntary actions to improve the transportation of energy products by rail. additionally, in august 2013, the fra issued emergency order 28 implementing new operating rules governing the transportation of energy products by rail. on august 1, 2014, the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration (phmsa) of the u.s. department of transportation published for public comment new proposed rules on transportation of flammable liquids (including crude oil and ethanol) by rail. the proposed rules included new tank car standards, possible new speed restrictions and possible new braking requirements for trains carrying 20 or more carloads of class 3 flammable liquids. public comments have been received by phmsa, and that agency is considering what final rules to propose. any proposed new regulations or continued operating practice changes by u.s. railroads related to the transportation of energy products by rail, if ultimately adopted, could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. 15 table of contents as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement ptc (a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned) at certain locations (including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard movements occur or where passenger operations occur) by the end of 2015. ptc will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to make significant investments in new safety technology. the u.s. rail industry, including kcs, has publicly stated it does not currently believe that ptc can be fully implemented by december 31, 2015 due to the many difficulties developing and deploying this inter-operable technology across the u.s. rail system. kcs, along with other class i railroads in the united states, is working with the fra and congress to seek an extension of the deadline for implementing ptc. kcs's failure to meet the deadline, including any extension, could result in fines or penalties and could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs's business. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company's best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. although the recorded liability is the best estimate of all probable costs, clean-up costs may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties' participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, accidental spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require kcs to incur costs or subject kcs to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company's mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm's facilities are located. the terms of kcsm's concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcs's consolidated financial statements. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm's concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. kcs is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and mexico. changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, and revisions of tax regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. additionally, the final determination of tax audits, claims or litigation could differ from what is reflected in kcs's financial statements. 16 table of contents kcs, as a common carrier by rail, is required by united states and mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and applicable mexican laws, kcs's common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs's network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs's customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or tih) materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of the company's insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is vulnerable to fluctuations in fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel requirements for its mexican operations through purchases at market prices from pemex refinaci n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration based on market prices. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated and kcsm is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a significant and sustained decrease in crude oil prices could adversely affect the transport of crude oil by rail to the u.s. gulf region as well as negatively impact railroad volumes related to equipment and other materials that support crude oil production. these factors could in turn adversely affect the company's consolidated financial statements. market fluctuations could adversely impact kcs's operating results as it hedges certain transactions. from time to time, kcs may use various financial instruments to reduce its exposure to various market risks, including interest rates, foreign currency, and fuel and commodity prices. while these financial instruments reduce the company's exposure to changes in market risks, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit the company's ability to benefit from favorable changes in underlying rates or prices due to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement. the availability of qualified personnel could adversely affect kcs's operations. changes in demographics, training requirements and the availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect kcs's ability to meet demand for rail service. unpredictable increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on kcs's operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a majority of kcs's employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 80% of kcsr and kcsm servicios employees were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs's control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown; if other employees were to become unionized or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway 17 table of contents workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. demand for north american rail services could exceed network capacity and could result in operational inefficiencies. over the last several years, the demand for rail services in both the united states and mexico has increased substantially. if the demand for kcs's rail services were to exceed the capacity of kcs's network, kcs may experience network difficulties. also, due to the interconnectivity between all railroads, especially in the u.s., congestion on other railroads caused by excess demand for rail services could also result in operational inefficiencies for kcs. traffic congestion experienced in the u.s. or mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from mexico. this system congestion and excess demand may also result in certain equipment shortages. in addition, the growth of cross border traffic in recent years has contributed to congestion on the international bridge at the nuevo laredo-laredo border gateway, which is expected to continue in the near future. this could also result in operational inefficiencies for kcs and adversely affect kcs's operations. any such operational difficulties could also be exacerbated by factors outside of kcs's control such as weather-related events. all of these issues could negatively affect the company's ability to efficiently provide rail service to our customers. kcs's business is capital-intensive and significant expansions in the capacity of the company's network can take a substantial amount of time, effort, and money to accomplish. although kcs constantly monitors its network in an effort to optimize its rail services, there can be no assurance that any measures will be able to adequately accommodate such increases in demand for rail service. kcs faces possible catastrophic loss and liability, and its insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to others. the operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property loss. in the course of kcs's operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. additionally, kcs's operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. the occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice and in compliance with the requirements of the concession against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business, property damage and business interruption due to natural disasters. however, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. this insurance may not be sufficient to cover kcs's damages or damages to others, and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. in addition, kcs is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, kcs may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have an adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company's chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. these acts may also impact the company's ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs's rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs's property. in recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in mexico, including incidents involving kcsm's trains and infrastructure. other acts of violence or crime could also adversely affect the company's business. as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. 18 table of contents kcs's ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm's operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcs's consolidated financial statements and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs's ability to obtain u.s. dollars or to convert mexican pesos ( pesos or ps. ) into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent kcs may have to effect those conversions, and could adversely affect the company's investment in kcsm. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy and changes in laws, public policies and government programs could be enacted, which could have an adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the level and timing of kcs's mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economies or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements and the company's ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs's control, including increased government regulations regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company's control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. severe weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the u.s. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs's securities. 19 table of contents fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and would increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the company's net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under mexican income tax law, and a strengthening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause an increase in the company's cash tax obligation and effective income tax rate. mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future which could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may experience high inflation in the future. during most of the 1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. the annual rates of inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in the national consumer price index, as provided by banco de m xico, were 4.1% in 2014 , 4.0% in 2013 and 3.6% in 2012 . a substantial increase in the mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of kcsm's costs, which could adversely affect its consolidated financial statements. high levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between mexico and the united states, and other countries, which could adversely affect kcsm's consolidated financial statements. kcs may be subject to various claims and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company may be exposed to the potential of various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 other matters litigation. the company is a party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions, all of which are of an ordinary, routine nature and incidental to its operations. included in these proceedings are various tort claims brought by current and former employees for job related injuries and by third parties for injuries related to railroad operations. kcs aggressively defends these matters and has established liability provisions that management believes are adequate to cover expected costs. although it is not possible to predict the outcome of any legal proceeding, in the opinion of the company's management, other than those proceedings described in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, such proceedings and actions should not, individually, or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. inflation. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require the use of historical cost, which does not reflect the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property. due to the capital intensive nature of kcs's business, the replacement cost of these assets would be significantly higher than the amounts reported under the historical cost basis. recent accounting pronouncements. refer to note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for information relative to recent accounting pronouncements. 45 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness includes commercial paper borrowings, revolving credit facilities, term loan facilities and floating rate senior notes, which totaled $400.1 million and $495.3 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. considering the balance of $400.1 million of variable rate debt at december 31, 2014 , kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in additional interest expense of $4.0 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2014 . based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt was approximately $1,884.1 million and $2,082.9 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively, compared with a carrying value of $1,865.8 million and $2,188.9 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , kcs did not have any outstanding fuel swap agreements. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs's overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2015 ; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company's control. assuming annual consumption of 137 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $13.7 million change in operating expenses. kcs mitigates the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers; however, in a period of volatile fuel prices or changing customer business mix, changes in fuel expense and fuel surcharge may differ. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcs's foreign subsidiaries use the u.s. dollar as their functional currency; however, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries' revenues and expenses are denominated in mexican pesos. based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations generally offset, with insignificant net impacts to operating income. the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar due to its net monetary assets that are denominated in mexican pesos. the company had ps.850.7 million of net monetary assets at december 31, 2014 . the following table presents an estimate of the impact to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical one mexican peso change in the exchange rate at december 31, 2014 : hypothetical change in exchange rate amount of gain (loss) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income net monetary assets denominated in mexican pesos at december 31, 2014: ps.850.7 million from ps.14.7 to ps.15.7 ($3.7 million) foreign exchange gain (loss) ps.850.7 million from ps.14.7 to ps.13.7 $4.2 million foreign exchange gain (loss) mexican income taxes are paid in mexican pesos, and as a result, the effective income tax rate reflects fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. most significantly, any gain or loss from the revaluation of net u.s. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities (primarily debt) into mexican pesos is included in mexican taxable income under mexican tax law. as a result, a strengthening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally increase the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective income tax rate, and a weakening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally decrease the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective tax rate. 46 table of contents the following table presents an estimate of the impact to the effective income tax rate and income tax expense that would result from a hypothetical one mexican peso change in the exchange rate at december 31, 2014: hypothetical change in exchange rate increase (decrease) in effective income tax rate amount of expense (benefit) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income from ps.14.7 to ps.15.7 (2.1%) ($14.8 million) income tax expense from ps.14.7 to ps.13.7 2.4% $17.0 million income tax expense the company may enter into foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. in december 2014, the company entered into foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $300.0 million . these contracts matured on january 15, 2015 , and obligated the company to purchase a total of ps.4,364.7 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.14.55 to each u.s. dollar. during january 2015, the company entered into offsetting contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $298.8 million . these offsetting contracts matured on january 15, 2015 , and obligated the company to sell a total of ps.4,364.7 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.14.61 to each u.s. dollar. in addition, during january 2015, the company entered into foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $300.0 million . these contracts mature on january 15, 2016 and obligate the company to purchase a total of ps.4,480.4 million at a weighted average exchange rate of ps.14.93 to each u.s. dollar. the company has not designated these foreign currency forward contracts as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the foreign currency forward contracts will be measured at fair value each period and any change in fair value will be recognized in foreign exchange gain (loss) within the consolidated statements of income. 47 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors kcs, as a common carrier by rail, is required by united states and mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and applicable mexican laws, kcs's common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs's network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs's customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or tih) materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of the company's insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies that could impose significant cost on the company's business operations. kcs is subject to legislation and regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies in the u.s. and mexico with respect to railroad operations. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. changes in legislation or regulation could have a negative impact on kcs's ability to negotiate prices for rail services, could negatively affect competition among rail carriers, or could negatively impact operating practices, resulting in reduced efficiency, increased operating costs or increased capital investment, all of which could result in a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. new economic regulation in the u.s. or mexico in current or future proceedings could change the regulatory framework within which the company operates which could materially change the company's business and have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. amendments to the mexican regulatory railroad service law became effective in january 2015 and the new mexican antitrust legislation became effective in july 2014. under article 47 of the mexican railroad services law and its regulations, if the comisi n federal de competencia econ mica (mexican antitrust commission or cfce ) determines that effective competition does not exist, then the sct has authority to impose remedies. cfce, however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is, therefore, unclear under what particular circumstances cfce would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the sct intervenes and imposes such remedies, it may negatively impact profitability. the company continues to evaluate the mexican government's implementation of these new laws, and unexpected adverse implementation could have a material adverse effect on kcs's business operations and consolidated financial statements. as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement positive train control ( ptc ), a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned. ptc is required to be implemented at certain locations, including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard movements regularly occur or where passenger operations occur. the surface transportation extension act of 2015 extended the ptc 10 table of contents implementation deadline from the end of 2015 to the end of 2018, conditioned upon the filing of revised ptc implementation plans, with a further two-year extension possible subject to review by the department of transportation. ptc will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to make significant investments in new safety technology. kcs's failure to meet deadlines, including any extension, could result in fines, service interruptions or penalties and could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. congress and government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs's business operations. kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government until june 2047, which is renewable for an additional period of up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for the first 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct, which is principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, has broad powers to monitor kcsm's compliance with the concession, and it can require kcsm to supply it with any technical, administrative and financial information it requests. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every five years. the sct treats kcsm's business plans confidentially. the sct also monitors kcsm's compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct reviews, and may amend, these standards every five years. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm's rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, would remain kcsm's property. in the event of early termination, or total or partial revocation of the concession, the mexican government would have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the amount of rent would be determined by experts appointed by kcsm and the mexican government. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after early termination or revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government would also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm's rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm's ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be made timely. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned on a specified number of occasions for any of the following: unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging rates higher than those it has registered with the sct; restricting the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; failing to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; failing to comply with any term or condition of the mexican railroad services law and regulations or the concession; failing to make the capital investments required under its five-year business plan filed with the sct; or failing to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican railroad services law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the sct's approval. the sct 11 table of contents may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm's surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm's liquidation or bankruptcy. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. revocation or termination of the concession could adversely affect the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs faces possible catastrophic loss and liability, and its insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to others. the operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property loss. in the course of kcs's operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. additionally, kcs's operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. the occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice and in compliance with the requirements of the concession against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business, property damage and business interruption due to natural disasters. however, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. this insurance may not be sufficient to cover kcs's damages or damages to others, and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. in addition, kcs is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, kcs may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have an adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm's operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule and civil disobedience, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcs's consolidated financial statements and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs's ability to obtain u.s. dollars or to convert mexican pesos ( pesos or ps. ) into dollars for purposes of making payments. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy and changes in laws, public policies and government programs could be enacted, which could have an adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the level and timing of kcs's mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economies or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements and the company's ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs's control, including increased government 12 table of contents regulations regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company's control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. severe weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs's securities. fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and would increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the company's net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under mexican income tax law, and a strengthening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause an increase in the company's cash tax obligation and effective income tax rate. severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures. the company's operations may be affected by severe weather or other natural disasters. the company operates in and along the gulf of mexico, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions that could also adversely affect kcs's shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruption and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic or other conditions. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affects the businesses served by kcs. a significant and sustained decrease in crude oil prices could adversely affect the transport of crude oil by rail to the u.s. gulf region as well as negatively impact railroad volumes related to equipment and other materials that support crude oil production. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs's customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the energy, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn or change in government policy in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company's consolidated financial statements. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. 13 table of contents kcs depends on the stability, availability and security of its information technology systems to operate its business. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software and communications equipment, could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security failures, regulatory compliance failures or other operational difficulties. the security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in or breach of kcs's information technology security systems, or those of its third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized access to its network could disrupt kcs's business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase its costs and/or cause losses. kcs also confronts the risk that a terrorist or other third parties may seek to use its property, including kcs's information technology systems, to inflict major harm. a significant disruption, failure or unauthorized access of kcs's information technology system could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. capacity constraints could adversely affect service and operating efficiency. kcs may experience capacity constraints due to increased demand for rail services, unavailability of equipment, crew shortages, or extreme weather. also, due to the interconnectivity between all railroads, especially in the u.s., congestion on other railroads could also result in operational inefficiencies for kcs. traffic congestion experienced in the u.s. or mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from mexico. in addition, the growth of cross border traffic in recent years has contributed to congestion on the international bridge at the nuevo laredo-laredo border gateway, which is expected to continue in the near future. this could also result in operational inefficiencies for kcs and adversely affect kcs's operations. significant expansions in the capacity of the company's network can require a substantial amount of time and investment. although kcs constantly monitors its network in an effort to optimize its rail services, there can be no assurance that such measures will adequately address capacity constraints on a timely basis. kcs may be subject to various claims and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company may be exposed to the potential of various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company's domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs's rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs's freight services less competitive. kcs's ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs's failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads' access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to 14 table of contents competitive pressures, developments that increase the quality or decrease the cost of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. a key part of kcs's growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and kcs's inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcs's business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs's rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs's ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties, and upon the performance of the obligations under the agreements by the other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial strength and efficient performance of other railroads. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcs is subject to environmental regulations, which may impose significant costs on the company's business operations. kcs operations are subject to environmental regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures in the u.s. and mexico. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. the company's mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm's facilities are located. the terms of kcsm's concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm's concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company's best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. however, remediation costs may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties' participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcs's consolidated financial statements. 15 table of contents kcs's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs's business operations. kcs's business is vulnerable to fluctuations in fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel requirements for its mexican operations through purchases at market prices from pemex refinaci n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration based on market prices. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated and kcsm is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. weaknesses in the short and long-term debt markets could negatively impact the company's access to capital. due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient railroad, the company regularly relies on debt markets for the issuance of long-term debt instruments, bank financing and commercial paper. instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including debt markets, or the deterioration of the company's financial condition due to internal or external factors, could restrict or prohibit access and could increase the cost of financing sources. a significant deterioration of the company's financial condition could also reduce credit ratings to below investment grade, limiting its access to external sources of capital, and increasing the costs of short and long-term debt financing, and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to climate change. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs's customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a majority of kcs's employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 80% of kcsr and kcsm servicios employees were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be 16 table of contents beyond kcs's control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown; if other employees were to become unionized or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. kcs is dependent on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment. kcs relies on a limited number of suppliers of core rail equipment (including locomotives, rolling stock equipment, rail and ties). the capital intensive nature and complexity of such equipment creates high barriers of entry for any potential new suppliers. if any of kcs's suppliers discontinue production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this could result in increased costs or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the availability of qualified personnel could adversely affect kcs's operations. changes in demographics, training requirements and the availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect kcs's ability to meet demand for rail service. unforeseen increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on kcs's operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company's chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. these acts may also impact the company's ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs's rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs's property. in recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in mexico, including incidents involving kcsm's trains and infrastructure. other acts of violence or crime could also adversely affect the company's business. as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. the price of kcs's common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they choose to or at prices they find attractive. the price of kcs's common stock on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), listed under the ticker symbol ksu , constantly changes. the company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate. the company's stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond kcs's control. these factors include, but are not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; developments generally affecting the railroad industry; announcements by kcs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings involving kcs; 17 table of contents kcs's dividend policy and limitations on the payment of dividends; future sales of kcs's equity or equity-linked securities; general domestic and international economic conditions including the availability of short and long-term financing. in addition, from time to time the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of kcs's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 other matters litigation. the company is a party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions, all of which are of an ordinary, routine nature and incidental to its operations. included in these proceedings are various tort claims brought by current and former employees for job related injuries and by third parties for injuries related to railroad operations. kcs aggressively defends these matters and has established liability provisions that management believes are adequate to cover expected costs. although it is not possible to predict the outcome of any legal proceeding, in the opinion of the company's management, other than those proceedings described in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, such proceedings and actions should not, individually, or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. inflation. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require the use of historical cost, which does not reflect the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property. due to the capital intensive nature of kcs's business, the replacement cost of these assets would be significantly higher than the amounts reported under the historical cost basis. recent accounting pronouncements. refer to note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for information relative to recent accounting pronouncements. 44 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness includes commercial paper borrowings, revolving credit facilities and floating rate senior notes, which totaled $330.0 million and $400.1 million at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. considering the balance of $330.0 million of variable rate debt at december 31, 2015 , kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in additional interest expense of $3.3 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2015 . based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt was approximately $2,287.5 million and $1,884.1 million at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, compared with a carrying value of $2,321.1 million and $1,851.3 million at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitments and derivative financial instruments. at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , kcs did not have any outstanding fuel derivative financial instruments. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs's overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2016 ; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company's control. assuming annual consumption of 132 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $13.2 million change in operating expenses. kcs mitigates the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers; however, in a period of volatile fuel prices or changing customer business mix, changes in fuel expense and fuel surcharge may differ. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcs's foreign subsidiaries use the u.s. dollar as their functional currency; however, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries' revenues and expenses are denominated in mexican pesos. based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations largely offset. the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar due to its net monetary assets that are denominated in mexican pesos. the company had ps.477.9 million of net monetary assets at december 31, 2015 . the following table presents an estimate of the impact to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical one mexican peso change in the exchange rate at december 31, 2015 : hypothetical change in exchange rate amount of gain (loss) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income net monetary assets denominated in mexican pesos at december 31, 2015: ps.477.9 million from ps.17.2 to ps.18.2 ($1.5 million) foreign exchange gain (loss) ps.477.9 million from ps.17.2 to ps.16.2 $1.7 million foreign exchange gain (loss) mexican income taxes are paid in mexican pesos, and as a result, the effective income tax rate reflects fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. most significantly, any gain or loss from the revaluation of net u.s. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities into mexican pesos is included in mexican taxable income under mexican tax law. as a result, a strengthening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally increase the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective income tax rate, and a weakening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally decrease the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective tax rate. 45 table of contents the following table presents an estimate of the impact to the effective income tax rate and income tax expense that would result from a hypothetical one mexican peso change in the exchange rate at december 31, 2015 : hypothetical change in exchange rate increase (decrease) in effective income tax rate amount of expense (benefit) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income from ps.17.2 to ps.18.2 (2.7%) ($18.0 million) income tax expense from ps.17.2 to ps.16.2 3.0% $20.1 million income tax expense the company has and may continue to enter into foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. as of december 31, 2015, the company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $300.0 million . these contracts matured on january 15, 2016 , and obligated the company to purchase a total of ps.4,480.4 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.14.93 to each u.s. dollar. during january 2016, the company entered into offsetting contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $251.0 million . these offsetting contracts matured on january 15, 2016 , and obligated the company to sell a total of ps.4,480.4 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.17.85 to each u.s. dollar. as of december 31, 2015, the company also had zero-cost collar contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $80.0 million outstanding, which matured in january 2016 , and resulted in a cash payment of $10.1 million . during january 2016, the company entered into foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $370.0 million to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $30.0 million will mature on april 29, 2016 and obligate the company to purchase a total of ps.537.2 million at an exchange rate of ps.17.91 to each u.s. dollar. the remaining contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $340.0 million will mature on january 17, 2017 and obligate the company to purchase a total of ps.6,207.7 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.18.26 to each u.s. dollar. the company has not designated these foreign currency derivative instruments as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the foreign currency derivative instruments will be measured at fair value each period and any change in fair value will be recognized in foreign exchange gain (loss) within the consolidated statements of income. 46 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors kcs, as a common carrier by rail, is required by united states and mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and applicable mexican laws, kcs's common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs's network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs's customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or tih) materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of the company's insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies that could impose significant cost on the company's business operations. kcs is subject to legislation and regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies in the u.s. and mexico with respect to railroad operations. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. changes in legislation or regulation could have a negative impact on kcs's ability to negotiate prices for rail services, could negatively affect competition among rail carriers, or could negatively impact operating practices, resulting in reduced efficiency, increased operating costs or increased capital investment, all of which could result in a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. new economic regulation in the u.s. or mexico in current or future proceedings could change the regulatory framework within which the company operates which could materially change the company's business and have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. amendments to the mexican regulatory railroad service law became effective in january 2015 and the new mexican antitrust legislation became effective in july 2014. under article 47 of the mexican regulatory railroad service law and its regulations, if the cofece determines that effective competition does not exist, then the artf has authority to impose new limited mandatory trackage rights and/or rate regulation. cofece antitrust review is underway. the purpose of that review is to determine whether or not there is effective competition in the rail markets for interconnection services, switching rights and trackage rights. the cofece review includes the entire freight rail transportation market in mexico and is not targeted to any single rail carrier. notwithstanding that, it is too early to determine what, if any, impact this review may have on mexican rail operations in the future, if the cofece determines there is a lack of effective competition, it could request the artf to establish new limited mandatory trackage rights and/or rate regulation under the amendments to the mexican regulatory railroad service law. cofece has extended its own preliminary report deadline to january 30, 2017. cofece has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is, therefore, unclear under what particular circumstances cofece would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the artf intervenes and imposes remedies, it may negatively impact profitability. as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement ptc, a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned. ptc is required to be implemented at certain locations, including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard movements regularly occur or where passenger operations occur. the surface transportation extension act of 2015 extended the ptc implementation deadline from the end of 2015 to the end of 2018, conditioned upon the filing of revised ptc implementation plans, with a further two-year 10 table of contents extension possible subject to review by the department of transportation. kcs filed a revised ptc implementation plan by the statutory due date. ptc will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to make significant investments in new safety technology. kcs's failure to meet deadlines, including any extension, could result in fines, service interruptions or penalties and could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. congress and government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs's business operations. kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government until june 2047, which is renewable for an additional period of up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for the first 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct and artf, which are principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, have broad powers to monitor kcsm's compliance with the concession, and they can require kcsm to supply them with any technical, administrative and financial information they request. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every three years. the sct treats kcsm's business plans confidentially. the sct and artf also monitor kcsm's compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct and artf review, and may amend, these standards from time to time. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm's rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, would remain kcsm's property. in the event of early termination, or total or partial revocation of the concession, the mexican government would have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the amount of rent would be determined by experts appointed by kcsm and the mexican government. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after early termination or revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government would also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm's rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm's ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be made timely. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned on a specified number of occasions for any of the following: unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging rates higher than those it has registered with the artf; unlawfully restricting the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; failing to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; failing to comply with any term or condition of the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations or the concession; failing to make the capital investments required under its three-year business plan filed with the sct; or failing to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the 11 table of contents sct's approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm's surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm's liquidation or bankruptcy. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. revocation or termination of the concession could adversely affect the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm's operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule and civil disobedience, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcs's consolidated financial statements and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs's ability to obtain u.s. dollars or to convert mexican pesos ( pesos or ps. ) into dollars for purposes of making payments. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy and changes in laws, public policies and government programs could be enacted, which could have an adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the level and timing of kcs's mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economies or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements and the company's ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs's control, including increased government regulations regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. u.s. president donald j. trump, certain members of the u.s. house of representatives, and key u.s. administrative officials and policy makers have suggested renegotiation of nafta and the implementation of tariffs, border taxes or other measures that could impact the level of trade between the u.s. and mexico. any such proposal or measure could negatively impact kcs customers and the volume of rail shipments, and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. additionally, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company's control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. severe weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely 12 table of contents payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs's securities. fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and would increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the company's net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under mexican income tax law, and a strengthening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause an increase in the company's cash tax obligation and effective income tax rate. severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures. the company's operations may be affected by severe weather or other natural disasters. the company operates in and along the gulf of mexico, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions that could also adversely affect kcs's shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruption and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic or other conditions. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affects the businesses served by kcs. a significant and sustained decrease in crude oil prices could adversely affect the transport of crude oil by rail to the u.s. gulf region as well as negatively impact railroad volumes related to equipment and other materials that support crude oil production. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs's customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the energy, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn or change in government policy in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company's consolidated financial statements. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs depends on the stability, availability and security of its information technology systems to operate its business. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software, communications equipment, wayside equipment or locomotive onboard equipment could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security failures, regulatory compliance failures or other operational difficulties. the security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication, activities and evolving techniques of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in or breach of kcs's information technology security systems, or those of its third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized access to its network could disrupt kcs's business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase its costs and/or cause losses and reputational damage. kcs also confronts the risk that a terrorist or nation-state sponsored group may seek to use its property, including kcs's information technology systems, to inflict major harm. 13 table of contents a significant disruption, failure or unauthorized access of kcs's information technology system could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. capacity constraints could adversely affect service and operating efficiency. kcs may experience capacity constraints due to increased demand for rail services, unavailability of equipment, crew shortages, or extreme weather. also, due to the interconnectivity between all railroads, especially in the u.s., congestion on other railroads could result in operational inefficiencies for kcs. traffic congestion experienced in the u.s. or mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from mexico. in addition, the growth of cross border traffic in recent years has contributed to congestion on the international bridge at the nuevo laredo-laredo border gateway, which is expected to continue in the near future. this could also result in operational inefficiencies for kcs and adversely affect kcs's operations. significant expansions in the capacity of the company's network can require a substantial amount of time and investment. although kcs constantly monitors its network in an effort to optimize its rail services, there can be no assurance that such measures will adequately address capacity constraints on a timely basis. kcs may be subject to various claims and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company may be exposed to the potential of various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company's domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs's rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs's freight services less competitive. kcs's ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs's failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads' access to gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, developments that increase the quality or decrease the cost of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. a key part of kcs's growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of nafta, and kcs's inability to grow 14 table of contents its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcs's business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs's rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs's ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties, and upon the performance of the obligations under the agreements by the other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial strength and efficient performance of other railroads. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcs is subject to environmental regulations, which may impose significant costs on the company's business operations. kcs operations are subject to environmental regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures in the u.s. and mexico. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. the company's mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm's facilities are located. the terms of kcsm's concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm's concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company's best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. however, remediation costs may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties' participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. government entities may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs's business operations. 15 table of contents kcs's business is vulnerable to fluctuations in fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs currently meets fuel requirements for its mexican operations through purchases from pemex refinaci n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, and other authorized fuel distributors of pemex fuel around the country. if pemex were to experience significant operational difficulties not quickly resolved, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. weaknesses in the short and long-term debt markets could negatively impact the company's access to capital. due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient railroad, the company regularly relies on debt markets for the issuance of long-term debt instruments, bank financing and commercial paper. instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including debt markets, or the deterioration of the company's financial condition due to internal or external factors, could restrict or prohibit access and could increase the cost of financing sources. a significant deterioration of the company's financial condition could also reduce credit ratings to below investment grade, limiting its access to external sources of capital, and increasing the costs of short and long-term debt financing, and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to climate change. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs's customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a majority of kcs's employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 75% and 80% of kcsr and kcsm servicios employees, respectively, were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs's control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown; if other employees were to become unionized or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. 16 table of contents kcs is dependent on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment. kcs relies on a limited number of suppliers of core rail equipment (including locomotives, rolling stock equipment, rail and ties). the capital intensive nature and complexity of such equipment creates high barriers of entry for any potential new suppliers. if any of kcs's suppliers discontinue production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this could result in increased costs or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the availability of qualified personnel could adversely affect kcs's operations. changes in demographics, training requirements and the availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect kcs's ability to meet demand for rail service. unforeseen increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on kcs's operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company's chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. these acts may also impact the company's ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs's rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs's property. in recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in mexico, including incidents involving kcsm's trains and infrastructure. other acts of violence or crime could also adversely affect the company's business. as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 other matters litigation. the company is a party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions, all of which are of an ordinary, routine nature and incidental to its operations. included in these proceedings are various tort claims brought by current and former employees for job related injuries and by third parties for injuries related to railroad operations. kcs aggressively defends these matters and has established liability provisions that management believes are adequate to cover expected costs. although it is not possible to predict the outcome of any legal proceeding, in the opinion of the company's management, other than those proceedings described in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, such proceedings and actions should not, individually, or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. inflation. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require the use of historical cost, which does not reflect the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property. due to the capital intensive nature of kcs's business, the replacement cost of these assets would be significantly higher than the amounts reported under the historical cost basis. recent accounting pronouncements. refer to note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for information relative to recent accounting pronouncements. 43 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. these instruments have been entered into for hedging rather than trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness includes commercial paper borrowings, revolving credit facilities and floating rate senior notes which totaled $181.4 million and $330.0 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. considering the balance of $181.4 million of variable rate debt at december 31, 2016 , kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in additional interest expense of $1.8 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2016 . based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt was approximately $2,303.8 million and $2,287.5 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, compared with a carrying value of $2,296.9 million and $2,321.1 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitments and derivative financial instruments. at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , kcs did not have any outstanding fuel derivative financial instruments. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs's overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2017 ; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company's control. assuming annual consumption of 130 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $13.0 million change in operating expenses. kcs mitigates the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers; however, in a period of volatile fuel prices or changing customer business mix, changes in fuel expense and fuel surcharge revenue may differ. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcs's foreign subsidiaries use the u.s. dollar as their functional currency; however, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries' revenues and expenses are denominated in mexican pesos. based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations have historically offset. the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar due to its net monetary assets that are denominated in mexican pesos. the company had ps.2,168.4 million of net monetary assets at december 31, 2016 . the following table presents an estimate of the impact to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one mexican peso at december 31, 2016 : hypothetical change in exchange rate amount of gain (loss) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income net monetary assets denominated in mexican pesos at december 31, 2016: ps.2,168.4 million from ps.20.7 to ps.21.7 ($4.8 million) foreign exchange loss ps.2,168.4 million from ps.20.7 to ps.19.7 $5.3 million foreign exchange loss mexican income taxes are paid in mexican pesos, and as a result, the effective income tax rate reflects fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. most significantly, any gain or loss from the revaluation of the company's net u.s. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities into mexican pesos is included in mexican taxable income under mexican tax law. as a result, a strengthening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally increase the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective income tax rate, and a weakening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally decrease the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective tax rate. 44 table of contents the following table presents an estimate of the impact to the effective income tax rate and income tax expense that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one mexican peso at december 31, 2016 : hypothetical change in exchange rate increase (decrease) in effective income tax rate amount of expense (benefit) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income from ps.20.7 to ps.21.7 (2.5%) ($16.7 million) income tax expense from ps.20.7 to ps.19.7 2.8% $18.4 million income tax expense the company has and may continue to enter into foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. as of december 31, 2016, the company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $340.0 million . these contracts matured on january 17, 2017 , and obligated the company to purchase a total of $6,207.7 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.18.26 to each u.s. dollar. during january 2017, the company entered into offsetting contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $287.0 million . these offsetting contracts matured on january 17, 2017 , and obligated the company to sell a total of ps.6,207.7 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.21.63 to each u.s. dollar. during january 2017, the company entered into foreign currency option contracts known as zero-cost collars with an aggregate notional amount of $380.0 million to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. the zero-cost collar contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $130.0 million and $250.0 million will mature on april 25, 2017 and january 16, 2018, respectively. the zero-cost collar contracts have a weighted-average rate of ps.21.61 to each u.s. dollar for the mexican peso call options purchased by kcs and a weighted-average rate of ps.23.87 to each u.s. dollar for the mexican peso put options sold by kcs. the company has not designated these foreign currency derivative instruments as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the foreign currency derivative instruments will be measured at fair value each period and any change in fair value will be recognized in foreign exchange gain (loss) within the consolidated statements of income. 45 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors kcs u.s. and mexico rail common carrier subsidiaries are required by united states and mexican laws, respectively, to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and applicable mexican laws, kcs's common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs's network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs's customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of the company's insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies that could impose significant cost on the company's business operations. kcs rail subsidiaries are subject to legislation and regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies in the u.s. and mexico with respect to railroad operations. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. changes in legislation or regulation could have a negative impact on kcs's ability to negotiate prices for rail services, could negatively affect competition among rail carriers, or could negatively impact operating practices, resulting in reduced efficiency, increased operating costs or increased capital investment, all of which could result in a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. new economic regulation in the u.s. or mexico in current or future proceedings could change the regulatory framework within which the company operates which could materially change the company's business and have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. pursuant to the mexican antitrust law and the regulatory railroad service law, the cofece announced that it would review competitive conditions in the mexican railroad industry, with respect to the existence of effective competition in the provision of interconnection services, trackage rights, switching rights and interline services used to render public freight transport in mexico. the cofece review includes the entire freight rail transportation market in mexico and is not targeted to any single rail carrier. if the cofece determines there is a lack of effective competition, the cofece could request the artf, which has primary regulatory jurisdiction over the company's mexican operations, to conduct proceedings to determine whether to establish new limited mandatory trackage rights and/or rate regulation under the amendments to the mexican regulatory railroad service law. such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. 10 table of contents as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement ptc, a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned. ptc is required to be implemented at certain locations, including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard movements regularly occur or where passenger operations occur. the surface transportation extension act of 2015 extended the ptc implementation deadline from the end of 2015 to the end of 2018, conditioned upon the filing of revised ptc implementation plans, with a further two-year extension possible subject to review by the department of transportation. kcs filed a revised ptc implementation plan by the statutory due date. ptc will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to make significant investments in new safety technology. kcs's failure to meet deadlines, including any extension, could result in fines, service interruptions or penalties and could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. congress and government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs's business operations. kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from conducting rail operations over the concession and would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government until june 2047, which is renewable for an additional period of up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for the first 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct and artf, which are principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, have broad powers to monitor kcsm's compliance with the concession, and they can require kcsm to supply them with any technical, administrative and financial information they request. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every three years. the sct treats kcsm's business plans confidentially. the sct and artf also monitor kcsm's compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct and artf review, and may amend, these standards from time to time. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm's rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, would remain kcsm's property. in the event of early termination, or total or partial revocation of the concession, the mexican government would have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the amount of rent would be determined by experts appointed by kcsm and the mexican government. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after early termination or revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government would also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm's rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm's ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be made timely. 11 table of contents the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned at least three times within a period of five years for any of the following: unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging rates higher than those it has registered with the artf; unlawfully restricting the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; failing to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; failing to comply with any term or condition of the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations or the concession; failing to make the capital investments required under its three-year business plan filed with the sct; or failing to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations. in addition, the concession would terminate automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the sct's approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm's surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm's liquidation or bankruptcy. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines, and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. revocation or termination of the concession could adversely affect the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm's operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule and civil disobedience, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcs's consolidated financial statements and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs's ability to obtain u.s. dollars or to convert mexican pesos ( pesos or ps. ) into dollars for purposes of making payments. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy and changes in laws, public policies and government programs could be enacted, which could have an adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the level and timing of kcs's mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. failure to preserve nafta free trade provisions, or any other action imposing import duties or border taxes, could negatively impact kcs customers and the volume of rail shipments, and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states or mexican economies or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements and the company's ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs's control, including increased government regulations regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. additionally, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond 12 table of contents the company's control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. severe weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs's securities. fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and would increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the company's net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under mexican income tax law, and a strengthening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause an increase in the company's cash tax obligation and effective income tax rate. severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures. the company's operations may be affected by severe weather or other natural disasters. the company operates in and along the gulf of mexico, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions that could also adversely affect kcs's shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruption and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic or other conditions. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affects the businesses served by kcs. a significant and sustained decrease in crude oil prices could adversely affect the transport of crude oil by rail to the u.s. gulf region as well as negatively impact railroad volumes related to equipment and other materials that support crude oil production. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs's customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the energy, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn or change in government policy in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company's consolidated financial statements. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs depends on the stability, availability and security of its information technology systems to operate its business. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software, communications equipment, wayside equipment or locomotive onboard equipment could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security failures, regulatory compliance failures or other operational difficulties. the security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication, activities and evolving techniques of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in or breach of kcs's information 13 table of contents technology security systems, or those of its third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized access to its network could disrupt kcs's business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase its costs and/or cause losses and reputational damage. kcs also confronts the risk that a terrorist or nation-state sponsored group may seek to use its property, including kcs's information technology systems, to inflict major harm. a significant disruption, failure or unauthorized access of kcs's information technology system could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. capacity constraints could adversely affect service and operating efficiency. kcs may experience capacity constraints due to increased demand for rail services, unavailability of equipment, crew shortages, or extreme weather. also, due to the interconnectivity between all railroads, especially in the u.s., congestion on other railroads could result in operational inefficiencies for kcs. traffic congestion experienced in the u.s. or mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from mexico. in addition, the growth of cross border traffic in recent years has contributed to congestion on the international bridge at the nuevo laredo-laredo border gateway, which is expected to continue in the near future. this could also result in operational inefficiencies for kcs and adversely affect kcs's operations. significant expansions in the capacity of the company's network can require a substantial amount of time and investment. although kcs constantly monitors its network in an effort to optimize its rail services, there can be no assurance that such measures will adequately address capacity constraints on a timely basis. kcs may be subject to various claims and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company may be exposed to the potential of various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company's domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs's rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs's freight services less competitive. kcs's ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs's failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads' access to gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, developments that increase the quality or decrease the cost of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. a key part of kcs's growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, 14 table of contents revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of nafta, and kcs's inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcs's business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs's rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs's ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties, and upon the performance of the obligations under the agreements by the other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial strength and efficient performance of other railroads. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcs is subject to environmental regulations, which may impose significant costs on the company's business operations. kcs subsidiaries' operations are subject to environmental regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures in the u.s. and mexico. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. the company's mexican subsidiaries' operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm's facilities are located. the terms of kcsm's concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm's concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company's best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of matters related to these sites. however, remediation costs may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties' participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. government entities may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs's business operations. 15 table of contents kcs's business is vulnerable to fluctuations in fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcsm currently meets the majority of its fuel requirements through purchases from pemex transformaci n industrial ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, and other authorized fuel distributors of pemex fuel around the country. if pemex were to experience significant operational difficulties not quickly resolved, the kcsm operations could be materially adversely affected. weaknesses in the short and long-term debt markets could negatively impact the company's access to capital. due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient railroad, the company regularly relies on debt markets for the issuance of long-term debt instruments, bank financing and commercial paper. instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including debt markets, or the deterioration of the company's financial condition due to internal or external factors, could restrict or prohibit access and could increase the cost of financing sources. a significant deterioration of the company's financial condition could also reduce credit ratings to below investment grade, limiting its access to external sources of capital, and increasing the costs of short and long-term debt financing, and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to climate change. kcs's operations may be adversely affected by restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs's customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a majority of kcs's employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 75% and 80% of kcsr and kcsm servicios employees, respectively, were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs's control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown; if other employees were to become unionized or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. 16 table of contents kcs is dependent on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment. kcs relies on a limited number of suppliers of core rail equipment (including locomotives, rolling stock equipment, rail and ties). the capital intensive nature and complexity of such equipment creates high barriers of entry for any potential new suppliers. if any of kcs's suppliers discontinue production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this could result in increased costs or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the unavailability of qualified personnel could adversely affect kcs's operations. changes in demographics, training requirements and the unavailability of qualified personnel could negatively affect kcs's ability to meet demand for rail service. unforeseen increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on kcs's operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company's chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs's consolidated financial statements. these acts may also impact the company's ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs's rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs's property. in recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in mexico, including incidents involving kcsm's trains and infrastructure. other acts of violence or crime could also adversely affect the company's business. as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 other matters litigation. the company is a party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions, all of which are of an ordinary, routine nature and incidental to its operations. included in these proceedings are various tort claims brought by current and former employees for job-related injuries and by third parties for injuries related to railroad operations. kcs aggressively defends these matters and has established liability provisions that management believes are adequate to cover expected costs. although it is not possible to predict the outcome of any legal proceeding, in the opinion of the company's management, other than those proceedings described in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, such proceedings and actions should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. inflation. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require the use of historical cost, which does not reflect the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property. due to the capital intensive nature of kcs's business, the replacement cost of these assets would be significantly higher than the amounts reported under the historical cost basis. recent accounting pronouncements. refer to note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for information relative to recent accounting pronouncements. 42 table of contents regulatory updates mexican antitrust law . pursuant to the mexican antitrust law and the regulatory railroad service law, the cofece announced that it would review competitive conditions in the mexican railroad industry, with respect to the existence of effective competition in the provision of interconnection services, trackage rights, switching rights and interline services used to render public freight transport in mexico. the cofece review includes the entire freight rail transportation market in mexico and is not targeted to any single rail carrier. on march 15, 2017, the cofece published an executive summary of its preliminary report in the diario oficial de la federaci n. the cofece's preliminary report concluded that there was a lack of effective competition in the market for trackage rights ( relevant market ) throughout the entire networks of kcsm, ferrocarril mexicano, s.a. de c.v., ferrosur, s.a. de c.v., and ferrocarril y terminal del valle de mexico, s.a. de c.v. the company disagrees with the cofece's reasoning and preliminary conclusions, and responded on april 20, 2017, with its evidence and arguments to support its position, as provided in the mexican antitrust law. the company's response argues that the investigation which supports the conclusions in the preliminary report was conducted contrary to the rule of law, the rules of procedure, and relied upon faulty economic analysis. on april 27, 2017, the cofece initiated the incidental procedure to analyze the recusal of two of its commissioners from ongoing proceedings ( motion to recuse ). on june 6, 2017, kcsm presented arguments in connection with the motion to recuse. on july 7, 2017, kcsm was served with rulings dated june 22, 2017 and june 2, 2017, regarding the motion to recuse. consequently, the two commissioners excluded themselves from further participation in the investigation. it is expected a final ruling will be issued around april 2018. it is too early to determine what, if any, impact this review may have on mexican rail operations in the future. if the cofece determines there is a lack of effective competition, the cofece could request the artf, which has primary regulatory jurisdiction over the company's mexican operations, to conduct proceedings to determine whether to establish new limited mandatory trackage rights and/or rate regulation under the amendments to the mexican regulatory railroad service law. surface transportation board. on july 27, 2016, the surface transportation board issued a notice of proposed rulemaking in ex parte 711 (sub-no.1) reciprocal switching, proposing rules related to reciprocal switching. initial comments on the proposed rule were due by october 26, 2016, and replies to the initial comments were due by january 13, 2017. on december 27, 2016, the agency suspended the procedural deadline following submission of reply comments, pending anticipated changes in the agency's membership. nafta. nafta is currently being renegotiated. negotiations will continue in late january with no certainty of progress or continuation. in addition, u.s. president donald j. trump, some members of congress, and key u.s. administration officials and policy makers have suggested the implementation of tariffs, border taxes or other measures that could impact the level of trade between the u.s. and mexico. any notice of u.s. withdrawal from nafta could be for negotiating position and may be challenged in courts. kcs believes north american trade will continue due to its economic importance and the economic realties that already exist in the north american marketplace. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. these instruments have been entered into for hedging rather than trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness includes commercial paper borrowings and revolving credit facilities which totaled $345.2 million and $181.4 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. considering the balance of $345.2 million of variable rate debt at december 31, 2017 , kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in additional interest expense of $3.5 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2017 . 43 table of contents based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt was approximately $2,377.8 million and $2,303.8 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, compared with a carrying value of $2,274.3 million and $2,296.9 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. in may 2017, the company executed four treasury lock agreements with an aggregate notional value of $275.0 million and a weighted-average interest rate of 2.85% . the purpose of the treasury locks is to hedge the u.s. treasury benchmark interest rate associated with future interest payments related to the anticipated refinancing of the $275.0 million of 2.35% senior notes due may 15, 2020 . commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitments and derivative financial instruments. at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , kcs did not have any outstanding fuel derivative financial instruments. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs's overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2018 ; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company's control. assuming annual consumption of 140 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $14.0 million change in operating expenses. kcs mitigates the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers; however, in a period of volatile fuel prices or changing customer business mix, changes in fuel expense and fuel surcharge revenue may differ. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcs's foreign subsidiaries use the u.s. dollar as their functional currency; however, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries' revenues and expenses is denominated in mexican pesos. based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations have historically offset. the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar due to its net monetary assets that are denominated in mexican pesos. the company had ps.2,389.1 million of net monetary assets at december 31, 2017 . the following table presents an estimate of the impact to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one mexican peso at december 31, 2017 : hypothetical change in exchange rate amount of gain (loss) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income net monetary assets denominated in mexican pesos at december 31, 2017: ps.2,389.1 million from ps.19.7 to ps.20.7 ($5.8 million) foreign exchange gain (loss) ps.2,389.1 million from ps.19.7 to ps.18.7 $6.5 million foreign exchange gain (loss) mexican income taxes are paid in mexican pesos, and as a result, the effective income tax rate reflects fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. most significantly, any gain or loss from the revaluation of the company's net u.s. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities into mexican pesos is included in mexican taxable income under mexican tax law. as a result, a strengthening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally increase the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective income tax rate, and a weakening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally decrease the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective tax rate. 44 table of contents the following table presents an estimate of the impact to the effective income tax rate and income tax expense that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one mexican peso at december 31, 2017 : hypothetical change in exchange rate increase (decrease) in effective income tax rate amount of expense (benefit) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income from ps.19.7 to ps.20.7 (1.9%) ($16.6 million) income tax expense (benefit) from ps.19.7 to ps.18.7 2.1% $18.3 million income tax expense (benefit) the company has executed, and expects to continue to execute foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. at december 31, 2017 , the company had outstanding foreign currency option contracts known as zero-cost collars with an aggregate notional amount of $80.0 million , which matured during january 2018 and resulted in cash received of $10.0 million . during january 2018, the company entered into several zero-cost collar contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $340.0 million and maturity dates throughout 2018 and in january 2019. the zero-cost collar contracts have a weighted-average rate of ps.19.23 to each u.s. dollar for the mexican peso call options purchased by kcs and a weighted-average rate of ps.21.45 to each u.s. dollar for the mexican peso put options sold by kcs. the company has not designated these foreign currency derivative instruments as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the foreign currency derivative instruments will be measured at fair value each period and any change in fair value will be recognized in foreign exchange gain (loss) within the consolidated statements of income. 45 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors kcs u.s. and mexico rail common carrier subsidiaries are required by united states and mexican laws, respectively, to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and applicable mexican laws, kcs's common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs's network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs's customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of the company's insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies that could impose significant cost on the company's business operations. kcs rail subsidiaries are subject to legislation and regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies in the u.s. and mexico with respect to railroad operations. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. changes in legislation or regulation could have a negative impact on kcs's ability to negotiate prices for rail services, could negatively affect competition among rail carriers, or could negatively impact operating practices, resulting in reduced efficiency, increased operating costs or increased capital investment, all of which could result in a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. new economic regulation in the u.s. or mexico in current or future proceedings could change the regulatory framework within which the company operates which could materially change the company's business and have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement ptc, a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned. ptc is required to be implemented at certain locations, including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard movements regularly occur or where passenger operations occur. the surface transportation extension act of 2015 amended the ptc deadline set by the rail safety improvement act to require implementation of ptc by the end of 2018, which was extended to december 31, 2020 for kcs, as certain other criteria were satisfied. ptc will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to make significant investments in new safety technology. kcs's failure to meet deadlines, including any extension, could result in fines, service interruptions or penalties and could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. congress and government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could have a material adverse effect on kcs's business operations. 10 table of contents kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from conducting rail operations over the concession and would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government until june 2047, which is renewable for an additional period of up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines through 2027 (the first 30 years of the 50-year concession), subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct and artf, which are principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, have broad powers to monitor kcsm's compliance with the concession, and they can require kcsm to supply them with any technical, administrative and financial information they request. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every three years. the sct treats kcsm's business plans confidentially. the sct and artf also monitor kcsm's compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct and artf review, and may amend, these standards from time to time. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm's rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, would remain kcsm's property. in the event of early termination, or total or partial revocation of the concession, the mexican government would have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the amount of rent would be determined by experts appointed by kcsm and the mexican government. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after early termination or revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government would also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm's rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm's ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be made timely. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned for the same cause at least three times within a period of five years for any of the following: unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging rates higher than those it has registered with the artf; unlawfully restricting the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; failing to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; failing to comply with any term or condition of the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations or the concession; failing to make the capital investments required under its three-year business plan filed with the sct; or failing to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations. in addition, the concession would terminate automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the sct's approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm's surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm's liquidation or bankruptcy. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines, and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. revocation or termination of the concession could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm's operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule and civil disobedience, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, 11 table of contents kcs's consolidated financial statements and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs's ability to obtain u.s. dollars or to convert mexican pesos ( pesos or ps. ) into dollars for purposes of making payments. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy and changes in laws, public policies and government programs could be enacted, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could have adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the level and timing of kcs's mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of current or future multinational trade agreements on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. failure to preserve free trade provisions, or any other action imposing import duties or border taxes, could negatively impact kcs customers and the volume of rail shipments, and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states or mexican economies or in trade between the united states and mexico could have material adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements and the company's ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs's control, including increased government regulations regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. additionally, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company's control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. severe weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs's securities. fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and could increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the company's net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under mexican income tax law, and a strengthening of the peso against the u.s. dollar could cause an increase in the company's cash tax obligation and effective income tax rate. severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures. the company's operations may be affected by severe weather or other natural disasters. the company operates in and along the gulf of mexico, and its facilities may be materially adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme 12 table of contents weather conditions that could also adversely affect kcs's shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruption and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic or other conditions. kcs's operations may be materially adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affects the businesses served by kcs. a significant and sustained decrease in crude oil prices could adversely affect the transport of crude oil by rail to the u.s. gulf region as well as negatively impact railroad volumes related to equipment and other materials that support crude oil production. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs's customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the energy, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn or change in government policy in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs depends on the stability, availability and security of its information technology systems to operate its business. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software, communications equipment, wayside equipment or locomotive onboard equipment could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security failures, regulatory compliance failures or other operational difficulties. the security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication, activities and evolving techniques of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in or breach of kcs's information technology security systems, or those of its third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized access to its network could disrupt kcs's business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase its costs and/or cause losses and reputational damage. kcs also confronts the risk that a terrorist or nation-state sponsored group may seek to use its property, including kcs's information technology systems, to inflict major harm. a significant disruption, failure or unauthorized access of kcs's information technology system could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. capacity constraints could adversely affect service and operating efficiency. kcs may experience capacity constraints due to increased demand for rail services, unavailability of equipment, crew shortages, or extreme weather. also, due to the interconnectivity between all railroads, especially in the u.s., congestion on other railroads could result in operational inefficiencies for kcs. traffic congestion experienced in the u.s. or mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from mexico, which could result in operational inefficiencies for kcs and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's operations. significant expansions in the capacity of the company's network can require a substantial amount of time and investment. although kcs constantly monitors its network in an effort to optimize its rail services, there can be no assurance that such measures will adequately address capacity constraints on a timely basis. 13 table of contents kcs may be subject to various claims and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company may be exposed to the potential of various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company's domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs's rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs's freight services less competitive. kcs's ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs's failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads' access to gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, developments that increase the quality or decrease the cost of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. a key part of kcs's growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of current or future multinational trade agreements, and kcs's inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcs's business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs's rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs's ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties, and upon the performance of the obligations under the agreements by the other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial strength and efficient performance of other railroads. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcs is subject to environmental regulations, which may impose significant costs on the company's business operations. kcs subsidiaries' operations are subject to environmental regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures in the u.s. and mexico. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental health and safety 14 table of contents laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. the company's mexican subsidiaries' operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm's facilities are located. the terms of kcsm's concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm's concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company's best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of matters related to these sites. however, remediation costs may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties' participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's failure or inability to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. government entities may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could have a material adverse effect on kcs's business operations. kcs's business is vulnerable to fluctuations in fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcsm currently meets the majority of its fuel requirements through purchases from pemex transformaci n industrial ( pemex ), a national oil company in mexico, and other authorized fuel distributors of pemex fuel around the country. if pemex were to experience significant operational difficulties not quickly resolved, the kcsm operations could be materially adversely affected. weaknesses in the short and long-term debt markets could negatively impact the company's access to capital. due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient railroad, the company regularly obtains financing through the issuance of long-term debt instruments and short-term commercial paper, as well as credit facilities provided by financial institutions. instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including debt markets, or the deterioration of the company's financial condition due to internal or external factors, could restrict or prohibit access and could increase the cost of financing sources. a significant deterioration of the company's financial condition could also reduce credit 15 table of contents ratings to below investment grade, limiting its access to external sources of capital, and increasing the costs of short and long-term debt financing, and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by climate change and the market and regulatory responses to climate change. climate change could have a material adverse effect on operations and kcs's consolidated financial statements. restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust, could significantly impact operations and increase operating costs. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs's customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a majority of kcs's employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 75% and 80% of kcsr and kcsm servicios employees, respectively, were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs's control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown; if other employees were to become unionized or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. kcs is dependent on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment. kcs relies on a limited number of suppliers of core rail equipment (including locomotives, rolling stock equipment, rail and ties). the capital intensive nature and complexity of such equipment creates high barriers of entry for any potential new suppliers. if any of kcs's suppliers discontinue production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this could result in increased costs or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the unavailability of qualified personnel could adversely affect kcs's operations. changes in demographics, training requirements and the unavailability of qualified personnel could negatively affect kcs's ability to meet demand for rail service. unforeseen increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on kcs's operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company's chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. these acts may also impact the company's ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs's rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs's 16 table of contents property. in recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in mexico, including incidents involving kcsm's trains and infrastructure. other acts of violence or crime could also materially adversely affect the company's business. as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs is exposed to certain market risks including interest rate, commodity, and foreign exchange risks and utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. these instruments have been entered into for hedging rather than trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 8, financial statements and supplementary data note 10 , derivative instruments, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. the analysis presented below for each of the company's market risks uses a sensitivity model based on hypothetical changes (increases or decreases) to market risks using defined parameters and assumptions to quantify the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income. the hypothetical changes to market risks do not represent kcs's view of future market changes. the effect of a change in a particular assumption was calculated without adjusting any other assumptions. these market risks and the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income for the current year, have not materially fluctuated, individually or in the aggregate from the preceding year; thus only current year information is presented below. 45 table of contents interest rate sensitivity. the company is subject to interest rate risk associated with its debt. changes in interest rates impact the fair value of outstanding fixed-rate debt, but there is no impact to current earnings or cash flow. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt was approximately $2,661.3 million and $2,377.8 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, compared with a carrying value of $2,689.4 million and $2,274.3 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. changes in interest rates may impact the cost of future long-term debt issued by the company, and as a result, represent interest rate risk to the company. in may 2017, the company executed four treasury lock agreements with an aggregate notional value of $275.0 million and a weighted-average interest rate of 2.85% . the purpose of the treasury locks is to hedge the u.s. treasury benchmark interest rate associated with future interest payments related to the anticipated refinancing of the $275.0 million of 2.35% senior notes due may 15, 2020 . the company has designated the treasury locks as cash flow hedges, and for the year ended december 31, 2018 , recognized an unrealized gain of $2.6 million , net of tax, in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. a hypothetical 100 basis points change in the ten-year u.s. treasury rate would result in a change in unrealized gain or loss of approximately $24.0 million. upon settlement in 2020, the unrealized gain or loss in accumulated other comprehensive income will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the future underlying debt issuance. alternatively, changes in interest rates do not affect the fair value of variable rate debt, but affect future earnings and cash flows. the company's floating-rate indebtedness includes commercial paper borrowings, and any outstanding borrowings under revolving credit facilities. at december 31, 2018 , kcs had no commercial paper or revolving credit facility borrowings outstanding. at december 31, 2017 , kcs had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $345.2 million, and no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility. commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitments and derivative financial instruments. at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , kcs did not have any outstanding fuel derivative financial instruments. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs's overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2019 ; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company's control. assuming annual consumption of 135 million gallons, a hypothetical 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $13.5 million change in operating expenses. kcs mitigates the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers; however, in a period of volatile fuel prices or changing customer business mix, changes in fuel expense and fuel surcharge revenue may differ. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcs's foreign subsidiaries use the u.s. dollar as their functional currency; however, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries' revenues and expenses is denominated in mexican pesos. based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations have historically offset. the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar due to its monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in mexican pesos. monetary assets and liabilities include cash, accounts receivable and payable and other items that will convert to cash in the future and are remeasured into dollars using the current exchange rate. the remeasurement and settlement of monetary assets and liabilities is recognized in the consolidated statements of income as foreign exchange gains and losses. at december 31, 2018 , the company had ps.799.7 million of net monetary assets denominated in mexican pesos, as monetary assets exceeded monetary liabilities. the following table presents the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one mexican peso per u.s. dollar at december 31, 2018 : hypothetical change in exchange rate amount of gain (loss) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income net monetary assets denominated in mexican pesos at december 31, 2018: ps.799.7 million from ps.19.7 to ps.20.7 ($2.0 million) foreign exchange gain (loss) ps.799.7 million from ps.19.7 to ps.18.7 $2.2 million foreign exchange gain (loss) 46 table of contents mexican income taxes are paid in mexican pesos, and as a result, the effective income tax rate reflects fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. most significantly, any gain or loss from the revaluation of the company's net u.s. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities into mexican pesos is included in mexican taxable income under mexican tax law. as a result, a strengthening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally increase the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective income tax rate, and a weakening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally decrease the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective tax rate. the following table presents the potential impacts to the effective income tax rate and income tax expense that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one mexican peso at december 31, 2018 : hypothetical change in exchange rate increase (decrease) in effective income tax rate amount of expense (benefit) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income from ps.19.7 to ps.20.7 (1.7%) ($14.8 million) income tax expense (benefit) from ps.19.7 to ps.18.7 1.8% $16.4 million income tax expense (benefit) the company has executed, and expects to continue to execute foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. these derivative instruments have historically offset the effects of foreign currency changes on income tax expense (benefit) resulting in minimal impact to net income. at december 31, 2018 , the company had outstanding foreign currency option contracts known as zero-cost collars with an aggregate notional amount of $120.0 million . given the maturity date of january 2019, the company believes there was minimal market risk associated with these contracts at december 31, 2018. the zero-cost collars matured in january 2019 and resulted in cash received of $0.3 million . at december 31, 2018 , the company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $20.0 million. these contracts mature september 30, 2019, and obligate the company to purchase a total of ps.410.9 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps. 20.5 to each u.s. dollar. during january 2019, the company entered into several foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $290.0 million and maturity dates throughout 2019. these contracts obligate the company to purchase a total of ps.5,754.9 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.19.84 to each u.s. dollar. the following table presents the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one mexican peso at maturity date for the foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2018 and those entered into during january 2019: aggregate notional amount: hypothetical change in exchange rate amount of gain (loss) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income $310.0 million from ps.19.9 to ps.20.9 ($14.8 million) foreign exchange gain (loss) $310.0 million from ps.19.9 to ps.18.9 $16.4 million foreign exchange gain (loss) the company has not designated these foreign currency derivative instruments as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the foreign currency derivative instruments will be measured at fair value each period and any change in fair value will be recognized in foreign exchange gain (loss) within the consolidated statements of income. 47 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors kcs u.s. and mexico rail common carrier subsidiaries are required by united states and mexican laws, respectively, to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and applicable mexican laws, kcs's common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs's network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs's customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of the company's insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is also required to comply with rules and regulations regarding the handling of hazardous materials. noncompliance with these rules and regulations could subject kcs to significant penalties or other costs and exposure to litigation. changes to these rules and regulations could also increase operating costs and negatively impact kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies that could impose significant costs on the company's business operations. kcs rail subsidiaries are subject to legislation and regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies in the u.s. and mexico with respect to railroad operations, including with respect to health, safety, labor, environmental and other areas. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. changes in legislation or regulation could have a negative impact on kcs's ability to negotiate prices for rail services, could negatively affect competition among rail carriers, or could negatively impact operating practices, resulting in reduced efficiency, increased operating costs or increased capital investment, all of which could result in a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. new economic regulation in the u.s. or mexico in current or future proceedings could change the regulatory framework within which the company operates which could materially change the company's business and have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement ptc, a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned. ptc is required to be implemented at certain locations, including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard movements regularly occur or where passenger operations occur. the surface transportation extension act of 2015 amended the ptc deadline set by the rail safety improvement act to require implementation of ptc by the end of 2018, which was extended to december 31, 2020 for kcs, as certain other criteria were satisfied. kcs's failure to meet deadlines, including any extension, could result in fines, service interruptions or penalties and could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. congress and government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could have a material adverse effect on kcs's business operations. kcsm's mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances, which would prevent kcsm from conducting rail operations under the concession and would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government until june 2047, which is renewable for an additional period of up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines through 2027 (the first 30 years of the 50-year concession), subject to certain 10 table of contents trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct and artf, which are principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, have broad powers to monitor kcsm's compliance with the concession, and they can require kcsm to supply them with any technical, administrative and financial information they request. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every three years. the sct treats kcsm's business plans confidentially. the sct and artf also monitor kcsm's compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct and artf review, and may amend, these standards from time to time. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm's rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, would remain kcsm's property. in the event of early termination, or total or partial revocation of the concession, the mexican government would have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms for up to five years. the amount of rent would be determined by experts appointed by kcsm and the mexican government. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after early termination or revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government would also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm's rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm's ability to operate under the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be made timely. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned for the same cause at least three times within a period of five years for any of the following: unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging rates higher than those it has registered with the artf; unlawfully restricting the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; failing to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; failing to comply with any term or condition of the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations or the concession; failing to make the capital investments required under its three-year business plan filed with the sct; or failing to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican regulatory railroad service law and regulations. in addition, the concession would terminate automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the sct's approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm's surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm's liquidation or bankruptcy. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines, and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. revocation or termination of the concession could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs's ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm's operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule and civil disobedience, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcs's consolidated financial statements and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs's ability to obtain u.s. dollars or to convert mexican pesos 11 table of contents ( pesos or ps. ) into dollars for purposes of making payments. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy and changes in laws, public policies and government programs could be enacted, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs depends on the stability, availability and security of its information technology systems to operate its business. disruptions in kcs's information technology ( it ) systems could materially adversely affect the company's business and operating results. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its it systems, including its computer hardware, software, communications equipment, wayside equipment or locomotive onboard equipment could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security failures, regulatory compliance failures or other operational difficulties. moreover, if kcs is not able to acquire new technology or to develop or implement new technology, kcs may suffer a competitive disadvantage, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the security risks associated with it systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication, activities and evolving techniques of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in, or breach of, kcs's it security systems, or those of its third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized access to its network could disrupt kcs's business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase its costs and/or cause losses and reputational damage. kcs also confronts the risk that a terrorist or nation-state sponsored group may seek to use its property, including kcs's information technology systems, to inflict major harm. although we have a comprehensive cybersecurity program designed to protect and preserve the integrity of our information technology systems, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience attempted cyber attacks of our it systems or networks. however, none of these attempted cyber attacks to date had a material impact on our operations or financial condition. while we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, including our own proprietary information and the confidential and personally identifiable information of our customers, employees, and business partners, these measures cannot provide absolute security. the costs to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and kcs's efforts to address these problems may not be successful, resulting potentially in the theft, loss, destruction or corruption of information that kcs stores electronically, as well as unexpected interruptions, delays or cessation of service, any of which could cause harm to kcs's business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach or cyber-attack affects kcs's systems or results in the unauthorized release of proprietary or personally identifiable information, the company's reputation could be materially damaged, customer confidence could be diminished, and kcs's operations could be impaired. a significant disruption, failure or unauthorized access of kcs's information technology system could expose the company to a risk of legal proceedings and potential liability and have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. further, legislative or regulatory action in these areas is evolving, and kcs may be unable to adapt its it systems or to manage the it systems of third parties to accommodate these changes. capacity constraints could materially adversely affect service and operating efficiency. kcs may experience capacity constraints due to increased demand for rail services, unavailability of equipment, crew shortages, or extreme weather. also, due to the interconnectivity between all railroads, especially in the u.s., congestion on other railroads could result in operational inefficiencies for kcs. traffic congestion experienced in the u.s. or mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from mexico, which could result in operational inefficiencies for kcs and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's operations. significant expansions in the capacity of the company's network can require a substantial amount of time and investment. although kcs constantly monitors its network in an effort to optimize its rail services, there can be no assurance that such measures will adequately address capacity constraints on a timely basis. 12 table of contents downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could have material adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the level and timing of kcs's mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of current or future multinational trade agreements on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. failure to preserve free trade provisions, or any other action imposing import duties or border taxes, could negatively impact kcs customers and the volume of rail shipments, and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. downturns in the united states or mexican economies or in trade between the united states and mexico could have material adverse effects on kcs's consolidated financial statements and the company's ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reductions in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs's control, including increased government regulations regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. additionally, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company's control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. extreme volatility in the peso-dollar exchange rate may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments and meeting contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs's securities. fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a weakening of the peso against the u.s. dollar would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and could increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the company's net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under mexican income tax law, and a strengthening of the peso against the u.s. dollar could cause an increase in the company's cash tax obligation and effective income tax rate. severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover damages to us or all of our liabilities. the company's operations may be affected by severe weather or other natural disasters. the company operates in and along the gulf of mexico, and its facilities may be materially adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, fires, earthquakes and other extreme weather conditions that could also adversely affect kcs's shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruption and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. insurance to protect against loss of business and other related consequences resulting from these natural occurrences is subject to coverage limitations and may not be sufficient to cover all of kcs's damages or damages to others. this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. even with insurance, if any natural occurrence leads to a catastrophic interruption of services, this could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic or other conditions. kcs's operations may be materially adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united 13 table of contents states and mexican economies affects the businesses served by kcs. a significant and sustained decrease in crude oil prices could adversely affect the transport of crude oil by rail to the u.s. gulf region as well as negatively impact railroad volumes related to equipment and other materials that support crude oil production. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs's customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the energy, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn or change in government policy in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs may be subject to various claims and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the company may be exposed to the potential of various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company's domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs's rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs's freight services less competitive. kcs's ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs's failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads' access to gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry. these competitors are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, developments that increase the quality or decrease the cost of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements. kcs may also experience operational or service difficulties related to network capacity, fluctuations in customers' demand for rail service, or other events that could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a key part of kcs's growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an 14 table of contents expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of current or future multinational trade agreements, and kcs's inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcs's business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs's rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs's ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties, and upon the performance of the obligations under the agreements by the other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial strength and efficient performance of other railroads. there can be no assurance that kcs would not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcs is subject to environmental regulations, which may impose significant costs on the company's business operations. kcs subsidiaries' operations are subject to environmental regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures in the u.s. and mexico. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in and may not be in compliance with environmental health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. the company's mexican subsidiaries' operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm's facilities are located. the terms of kcsm's concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm's concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company's best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of matters related to these sites. however, remediation costs may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties' participation, discovery of unidentified environmental conditions and matters, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of unknown additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's failure or inability to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. government entities may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates that could result in adverse effects on the company's business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could have a material adverse effect on kcs's business operations. 15 table of contents kcs's business is vulnerable to fluctuations in fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. weaknesses in the short and long-term debt markets could negatively impact the company's access to capital. due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient railroad, the company regularly obtains financing through the issuance of long-term debt instruments and short-term commercial paper, as well as credit facilities provided by financial institutions. significant, sustained instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including debt markets, or the deterioration of the company's financial condition due to internal or external factors, could restrict or prohibit access and could increase the cost of financing sources. a significant deterioration of the company's financial condition could also reduce credit ratings to below investment grade, limiting its access to external sources of capital, and increasing the costs of short and long-term debt financing, and could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by climate change and the market and regulatory responses to climate change. climate change could have a material adverse effect on operations and kcs's consolidated financial statements. restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust, could significantly impact operations and increase operating costs. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs's customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. moreover, increasing frequency, intensity and duration of extreme weather events such as flooding, storms and fires may result in substantial costs, including costs associated with response during the event, recovery from the event and preventive measures. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other aforementioned factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. a majority of kcs's employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2019 , over 70% and 75% of kcsr and kcsm servicios employees, respectively, were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs's control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. in the united states and mexico, kcs is seeking to modernize its collective bargaining agreements and benefit from technological advancements in the industry. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown; if other employees were to become unionized or if kcs and its unions were unable to agree on the terms and conditions in future labor agreements, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. additionally, labor law reform adopted by 16 table of contents mexico introduces uncertainty into the existing union structure in mexico, which may affect the risk of disruption in kcsm's operations. kcs is dependent on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment. kcs relies on a limited number of suppliers of core rail equipment (including locomotives, rolling stock equipment, rail and ties). the capital intensive nature and complexity of such equipment creates high barriers of entry for any potential new suppliers. if any of kcs's suppliers discontinue production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this could result in increased costs or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. the unavailability of qualified personnel could adversely affect kcs's operations. changes in demographics, training requirements and the unavailability of qualified personnel could negatively affect kcs's ability to meet demand for rail service. unforeseen increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on kcs's operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. kcs's business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company's chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war could have a material adverse effect on kcs's consolidated financial statements. these acts may also impact the company's ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs's rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs's property. in recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in mexico, including incidents involving kcsm's trains and infrastructure. other acts of violence or crime could also materially adversely affect the company's business. as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs is exposed to certain market risks including interest rate, commodity, and foreign exchange risks and utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. these instruments have been entered into for hedging rather than trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 8, financial statements and supplementary data note 12 , derivative instruments, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. the analysis presented below for each of the company's market risks uses a sensitivity model based on hypothetical changes (increases or decreases) to market risks using defined parameters and assumptions to quantify the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income. the hypothetical changes to market risks do not represent kcs's view of future market changes. the effect of a change in a particular assumption was calculated without adjusting any other assumptions. these market risks and the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income for the current year, have not materially fluctuated, individually or in the aggregate from the preceding year; thus only current year information is presented below. interest rate sensitivity. the company is subject to interest rate risk associated with its debt. changes in interest rates impact the fair value of outstanding fixed-rate debt, but there is no impact to current earnings or cash flow. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt was approximately $3,535.7 million and $2,661.3 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, compared with a carrying value of $3,246.0 million and $2,689.4 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. alternatively, changes in interest rates do not affect the fair value of variable rate debt, but affect future earnings and cash flows. the company's floating-rate indebtedness includes commercial paper borrowings, and any outstanding borrowings under revolving credit facilities. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , kcs had no commercial paper or revolving credit facility borrowings outstanding. commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitments and derivative financial instruments. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , kcs did not have any outstanding fuel derivative financial instruments. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs's overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2020 ; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company's control. assuming annual consumption of 133 million gallons, a hypothetical 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $13.3 million change in operating expenses. kcs mitigates the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers; however, in a period of volatile fuel prices or changing customer business mix, changes in fuel expense and fuel surcharge revenue may differ. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcs's foreign subsidiaries use the u.s. dollar as their functional currency; however, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries' revenues and expenses is denominated in mexican pesos. based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations have historically offset. the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar due to its monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in mexican pesos. monetary assets and liabilities include cash, accounts receivable and payable and other items that will convert to cash in the future and are remeasured into dollars using the current exchange 41 table of contents rate. the remeasurement and settlement of monetary assets and liabilities is recognized in the consolidated statements of income as foreign exchange gains and losses. at december 31, 2019 , the company had ps.1,956.9 million of net monetary assets denominated in mexican pesos, as monetary assets exceeded monetary liabilities. the following table presents the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one mexican peso per u.s. dollar at december 31, 2019 : hypothetical change in exchange rate amount of gain (loss) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income net monetary assets denominated in mexican pesos at december 31, 2019: ps.1,956.9 million from ps.18.8 to ps.19.8 ($5.2 million) foreign exchange gain (loss) ps.1,956.9 million from ps.18.8 to ps.17.8 $5.8 million foreign exchange gain (loss) mexican income taxes are paid in mexican pesos, and as a result, the effective income tax rate reflects fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. most significantly, any gain or loss from the revaluation of the company's net u.s. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities into mexican pesos is included in mexican taxable income under mexican tax law. as a result, a strengthening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally increase the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective income tax rate, and a weakening of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar for the reporting period will generally decrease the mexican cash tax obligation and the effective tax rate. the following table presents the potential impacts to the effective income tax rate and income tax expense that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one mexican peso at december 31, 2019 : hypothetical change in exchange rate increase (decrease) in effective income tax rate amount of expense (benefit) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income from ps.18.8 to ps.19.8 (2.0%) ($15.7 million) income tax expense (benefit) from ps.18.8 to ps.17.8 2.2% $17.5 million income tax expense (benefit) the company has executed, and expects to continue to execute foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. these derivative instruments have historically offset the effects of foreign currency changes on income tax expense (benefit) resulting in minimal impact to net income. at december 31, 2019 , the company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $105.0 million, which matured during january 2020 and obligated the company to purchase a total of ps.2,041.2 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.19.4 to each u.s. dollar. during january 2020, the company entered into offsetting contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $108.6 million , which matured during january 2020 and obligated the company to sell a total of ps.2,041.2 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.18.8 to each u.s. dollar. given the settlement during january 2020, the company believes there was minimal market risk associated with these contracts at december 31, 2019. during january 2020, the company entered into several foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $250.0 million maturing in february 2020. these contracts obligate the company to purchase a total of ps.4,751.5 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of ps.19.0 to each u.s. dollar. the following table presents the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one mexican peso at maturity date for the foreign currency forward contracts entered into during january 2020: 42 table of contents aggregate notional amount: hypothetical change in exchange rate amount of gain (loss) affected line item in the consolidated statements of income $250.0 million from ps.19.0 to ps.20.0 ($12.5 million) foreign exchange gain (loss) $250.0 million from ps.19.0 to ps.18.0 $13.9 million foreign exchange gain (loss) the company has not designated these foreign currency derivative instruments as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the foreign currency derivative instruments will be measured at fair value each period and any change in fair value will be recognized in foreign exchange gain (loss) within the consolidated statements of income. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors risks related to an investment in kcs common stock the price of kcs common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they want to or at prices they find attractive. the price of kcs common stock on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), listed under the ticker symbol ksu , constantly changes. the company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate. the company stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond kcs control. these factors include, but are not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; developments generally affecting the railroad industry; announcements by kcs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings against kcs; kcs dividend policy and restrictions on the payment of dividends; future sales of kcs equity or equity-linked securities; the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock or convertible debt; and general domestic and international economic conditions including the availability of short- and long-term financing. in addition, from time to time the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of kcs common stock. kcs ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock is currently prohibited and kcs does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. kcs has agreed, and may agree in the future, to restrictions on its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. in addition, to maintain its credit ratings, the company may be limited in its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock so that it can maintain an appropriate level of debt. during the first quarter of 2000, the board of directors suspended common stock dividends. kcs does not anticipate making any cash dividend payments to its common stockholders in the foreseeable future. holders of the series d preferred stock may have special voting rights if kcs fails to pay dividends on that preferred stock over a stated number of quarters. if dividends on the series d preferred stock are in arrears for six consecutive quarters (or an equivalent number of days in the aggregate, whether or not consecutive), holders of the series d preferred stock will be entitled to elect two of the authorized number of directors at the next annual stockholders meeting at which directors are elected and at each subsequent stockholders meeting until such time as all accumulated dividends are paid on the series d preferred stock or set aside for payment. in addition, so long as dividends on the series d preferred stock remain unpaid and for a period thereafter, kcs will not be eligible to register future 9 table of contents offerings of securities on form s-3 or to avail itself of the other benefits available to companies that qualify as well-known seasoned issuers under sec rules, which could adversely affect kcs ability to access capital markets and increase the cost of accessing capital markets. sales of substantial amounts of kcs common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. as of december 31, 2009, there were 8,763,107 shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991 amended and restated stock option and performance award plan, the 2008 stock option and performance award plan and the employee stock purchase plan, 2,117,095 shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors outside those plans, and 6,999,826 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock. sales of common stock by employees upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and directors subject to compliance with rule 144 under the securities act, and sales of common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of kcs common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter, bylaws and rights agreement that could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a controlling interest in kcs and that could deprive an investor of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of kcs common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties, including provisions providing for a classified board and supermajority stockholder approval requirements in order to increase the size of the board of directors, abolish cumulative voting, abolish the classification of the board, or effect certain merger, consolidation or sale transactions. the bylaws provide that a stockholder must give the company advance written notice of its intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual meeting. in addition, the company has adopted a rights agreement which under certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to acquire control of kcs without prior approval of the board of directors. these provisions may deprive kcs stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. the failure of a bank to fund a request (or any portion of such request) by kcs to borrow money under its existing revolving credit facility could reduce kcs ability to fund capital expenditures or otherwise properly fund its operations. the company and its subsidiaries are in an industry that requires continuing infrastructure improvements and acquisitions of capital assets, necessitating substantial expenditure of cash. kcsr has an existing revolving credit facility with multiple banking institutions to provide additional liquidity. if any of the banking institutions that are a party to such credit facility fails to fund a request (or any portion of such request) by kcsr to borrow money under its credit facility, kcs ability to fund capital expenditures, fund its operations and pay debt service could be reduced, each of which could result in a decline in the value of a stockholder investment in the company. the failure of any bank in which the company deposits funds could reduce the amount of cash the company has available to pay distributions and make additional investments. given the developments in the subprime mortgage and other financial markets, financial institutions have additional capital risks. the company has diversified cash and cash equivalents among several banking institutions in an attempt to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. however, the federal deposit insurance corporation, or fdic, only insures amounts up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank. kcs currently has cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of federally insured levels. if any of the banking institutions in which kcs has deposited funds ultimately fails, the company may lose its deposits to the extent they are in excess of $250,000. the loss of the company deposits could reduce the amount of cash the company has available to distribute or invest and could result in a decline in the value of each stockholder investment in the company. 10 table of contents risks related to kcs business kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, particularly the union pacific railroad company ( up ) and bnsf railway company ( bnsf ) in the united states and ferromex in mexico, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs freight services less competitive. kcs ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operation and financial condition. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on operations. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. a central part of kcs growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, projected revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and kcs inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcs business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs business, financial condition and results of operations. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial health and efficient performance of other railroads. for example, some of kcsr traffic moves over the up lines via trackage rights, a significant portion of kcsr grain shipments originate with another rail carrier pursuant to marketing agreements with that carrier, and the up is kcs largest partner in the interchange of total rail traffic. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. 11 table of contents kcsm operations are subject to certain trackage rights, haulage rights and interline service agreements with another mexican rail carrier, some of which are in dispute. through kcsm concession from the mexican government, kcsm is required to grant short and long distance trackage rights to ferromex. applicable law stipulates that ferromex similarly is required to grant to kcsm rights to use portions of their tracks. although all of these trackage rights have been granted under the concession, kcsm and ferromex have not actually operated under the long distance trackage rights because, other than the rates to be charged pursuant to the trackage rights agreement, dated february 9, 2010, between kcsm and ferromex, the rates that may be charged for the right to use the tracks have not been agreed upon between kcsm and ferromex for the periods beginning in 1998 through december 31, 2008. if kcsm cannot reach an agreement with ferromex for rates applicable for services prior to january 1, 2009 which are not subject to the trackage rights agreement, the sct is entitled to set the rates in accordance with mexican law and regulations, which rates may not adequately compensate kcsm. kcsm is currently involved in judicial, civil and administrative proceedings and negotiations with ferromex regarding the rates payable to each other for trackage rights, interline services and haulage rights for periods prior to january 1, 2009. certain of these disputes continue under litigation. any resolution of such procedures adverse to kcsm could have a negative impact on its results of operations in a particular quarter or fiscal year. kcs debt capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total debt plus equity) is 45.8%. kcs leverage could adversely affect its ability to fulfill obligations under various debt instruments and operate its business. kcs level of debt could make it more difficult for it to borrow money in the future, may reduce the amount of money available to finance operations and other business activities, exposes the company to the risk of increased interest rates, makes it more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions, and could reduce flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions. kcs failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in its debt instruments, which, among other things, require kcs to maintain specified financial ratios and limit its ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on the company business or prospects. if the company does not have enough cash to service its debt, meet other obligations and fund other liquidity needs, kcs may be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from lenders, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. kcs cannot assure that any of these remedies can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict the company from adopting some of these alternatives. the indebtedness of kcsm exposes it to risks of exchange rate fluctuations because any devaluation of the peso would cause the cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase and could place the company at a competitive disadvantage in mexico, compared to mexican competitors that have less dollar-denominated debt and greater operating and financial flexibility than kcsm. a downturn in the debt capital markets may increase the cost of borrowing and make financing difficult to obtain, each of which may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations and business. events in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on the debt capital markets and, as a result, credit may become more expensive and difficult to obtain. lenders may impose more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there may be a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which kcs conducts business. the negative impact of tightening credit markets and adverse changes in the debt capital markets generally may have a material adverse effect on kcs business and results of operations resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to finance capital expansion on favorable terms, if at all, increased financing costs or financial terms with increasingly restrictive covenants. 12 table of contents kcs business is capital intensive. the company business is capital intensive and requires substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things, additions and improvements to roadway, structures and technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of equipment and the rail system. kcs failure to make necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could impair its ability to serve existing customers or accommodate increases in traffic volumes. kcsm concession from the mexican government requires kcsm to make investments and undertake capital projects. if kcsm fails to make such capital investments, kcsm business plan commitments with the mexican government may be at risk, requiring kcsm to seek waivers of its business plan. there is no assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by the sct. kcsm may defer capital expenditures under its business plan with the permission of the sct. however, the sct might not grant this permission, and any failure by kcsm to comply with the capital investment commitments in its business plan could result in sanctions imposed by the sct, and could result in revocation of the concession if sanctions are imposed on five distinct occasions. the company cannot assure that the mexican government would grant any such permission or waiver. if such permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and kcsm is sanctioned, its concession might be at risk of revocation, which would materially adversely affect kcs financial condition and results of operations. see kcsm mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances below. kcs has funded, and expects to continue to fund capital expenditures with funds from operating cash flows, equipment leases, and debt financing. kcs may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure requirements. even if financing is available, it may not be obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to kcs existing debt. kcs depends on the stability and availability of its information technology systems to operate its business. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software and communications equipment, could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security violations, regulatory compliance failures and the inability to protect corporate information assets against intruders or other operational difficulties. although kcs has taken steps to mitigate these risks, a significant disruption could adversely affect kcs results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and ability to compete effectively. additionally, if kcs is unable to acquire or implement new technology, it may suffer a competitive disadvantage, which could also have an adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. kcs business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic, weather or other conditions. kcs operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affect the businesses served by kcs. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. pcrc is directly affected by the world economy and trans-pacific trade flows. in addition, kcs investments in mexico and panama expose the company to risks associated with operating in mexico and panama, including, among others, cultural differences, varying labor, regulatory and operating practices, political risk and differences between the united states, mexican and panamanian economies. historically, a stronger economy has resulted in improved results for kcs rail transportation operations. conversely, when the economy has slowed, results have been less favorable. if an economic slowdown or recession occurs in key markets, the volume of rail shipments is likely to be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs business and financial condition. 13 table of contents the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. for example, global steel and petrochemical prices have decreased in the past, and reduced demand for automotive vehicles and related shipments may result in decreased prices. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company financial condition or results. the company operations may also be affected by natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. the company operates in and along the gulf coast of the united states, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions that adversely affect kcs shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. many of the goods and commodities transported by kcs experience cyclical demand. kcs results of operations can be expected to reflect this cyclical demand because of the significant fixed costs inherent in railroad operations. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. kcs business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to climate change. kcs operations may be adversely affected by restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. kcs is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect kcs business. kcs business is subject to credit risk including the risk that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. customers and counterparties that owe the company money may default on their obligations to the company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. although the company has procedures for reviewing its receivables and credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. some of the company risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by the company. that information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, concerns about, or a default by, one customer or counterparty could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other customers or counterparties, which in turn could adversely affect the company. the company may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by its customers and counterparties. 14 table of contents kcs business is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including tax, environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations that could require kcs to incur material costs or liabilities relating to tax, environmental, health, or safety compliance or remediation. kcs failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on its operations. kcs is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and mexico. significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, and revisions of tax regulations could have a material adverse affect on the company financial condition and operating results. although kcs believes the tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits, claims, or litigation could differ from what is reflected in kcs income tax provisions and accruals. kcs is subject to governmental regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to its railroad operations, including the department of transportation and the department of homeland security in the united states and the secretary of communications and transportation in mexico, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and other matters. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement positive train control (a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned) at certain locations (including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard movements occur or where passenger operations occur) by the end of 2015, which will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to invest significant amounts of money into new safety technology. kcs inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and operations, including limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on its business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs business. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. although the recorded liability is the best estimate of all probable costs, clean-up costs cannot be predicted with absolute certainty, and may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, accidental spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require kcs to incur costs or subject kcs to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the company mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and 15 table of contents solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm facilities are located. the terms of kcsm concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcsm results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. kcs, as a common carrier by rail, is required by united states and mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and mexican applicable laws, kcs common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or tih) materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. kcs business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. any significant increase in the cost of fuel that is not adequately covered by fuel surcharges, or severe disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations and financial condition. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. during periods of rising fuel prices, kcs has been able to pass the majority of these fuel cost increases on to customers in the form of fuel surcharges applied either in the form of an increase in the freight rate or direct customer billings. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. kcs currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel requirements for its mexican operations almost exclusively through purchases at market prices from pemex refinanci n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated and kcsm is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. market fluctuations could adversely impact kcs operating results as it hedges certain transactions. from time to time, kcs may use various financial instruments to reduce its exposure to various market risks, including interest rates and fuel prices. while these financial instruments reduce the company exposure to changes in market risks, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit the company ability to benefit from lower fuel prices or interest rates due to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement. the loss of key personnel could negatively affect business. kcs success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of the senior management team and the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. recruiting, motivating, and retaining qualified 16 table of contents management personnel, particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are vital to operations and success. there is substantial competition for qualified management personnel and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. employment agreements with senior management are terminable at any time by either party. if kcs loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its ability to successfully implement its business plans and the value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected. a majority of kcs employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2009, approximately 80% of kcsr and kcsm employees were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, if other employees were to become unionized, or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. kcs faces possible catastrophic loss and liability and its insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to others. the operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property loss. in the course of kcs operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death, and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. additionally, kcs operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. the occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on kcs operations and financial condition. the company maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business and business interruption due to natural disaster. however, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. this insurance may not be sufficient to cover kcs damages or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. in addition, kcs is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, kcs may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have an adverse effect on kcs financial condition. kcs business may be affected by future acts of terrorism war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. these acts may also impact the company ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs property. in recent years, there have been 17 table of contents reported incidents of train cargo robberies in the united states and mexico. other acts of violence or crime could also adversely affect the company business. as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. kcsm mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the company business and financial condition. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government, which is renewable for up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct, which is principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, has broad powers to monitor kcsm compliance with the concession and it can require kcsm to supply it with any technical, administrative and financial information it requests. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every five years. the sct treats kcsm business plans confidentially. the sct also monitors kcsm compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct reviews, and may amend, these standards every five years. the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide the mexican government certain rights in its relationship with kcsm under the concession, including the right to take over the management of kcsm and its railroad in certain extraordinary cases, such as imminent danger to national security. in the past, the mexican government has used such power with respect to other privatized industries, including the telecommunications industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. in addition, under article 47 of the mexican railroad services law and its regulations, the sct, in consultation with the mexican antitrust commission, reserves the right to set service rates if it determines that effective competition does not exist in the mexican railroad industry. the mexican antitrust commission, however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is therefore unclear under what particular circumstances the mexican antitrust commission would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the sct intervenes and sets service rates, the rates it sets may be too low to allow kcsm to operate profitably. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, will remain kcsm property. the mexican government will have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government will also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be timely made. 18 table of contents the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned on three distinct occasions for unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging tariffs higher than the tariffs it has registered with the sct. in addition, the sct may revoke the concession if, among other things, kcsm is sanctioned on five distinct occasions because kcsm restricts the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; kcsm fails to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; kcsm fails to comply with any term or condition of the mexican railroad services law and regulations or the concession; kcsm fails to make the capital investments required under its five-year business plan filed with the sct; or kcsm fails to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican railroad services law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the sct approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm liquidation or bankruptcy. revocation or termination of the concession would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would materially adversely affect the mexican operations and the ability to make payments on kcsm debt. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. in april 2006, the sct initiated proceedings against kcsm, claiming that kcsm had failed to make certain minimum capital investments projected for 2004 and 2005 under its five-year business plan filed with the sct prior to its april 2005 acquisition by kcs (collectively, the capital investment proceedings ). kcsm believes it made capital expenditures exceeding the required amounts. kcsm responded to the sct by providing evidence in support of its investments and explaining why it believes sanctions are not appropriate. in may 2007, kcsm was served with an sct resolution regarding the capital investment proceeding for 2004, in which the sct resolved to impose no sanction. in june 2007, kcsm was served with an sct resolution regarding the capital investment proceeding for 2005, in which the sct determined that kcsm had indeed failed to make the minimum capital investments required for such year, and imposed a minimal fine. kcsm has filed an action in the mexican administrative and fiscal federal court challenging this ruling. kcsm will have the right to challenge any adverse ruling. kcsm believes that even if a sanction is ultimately imposed as a consequence of the 2005 capital investment proceeding, there will be no material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. however, if a sanction were to be imposed, it would be considered a generic sanction under mexican law (i.e., sanctions applied to conduct not specifically referred to in specific subsections of the mexican railway law). if kcsm is ultimately sanctioned by the sct for generic sanctions on five occasions over the term of the concession, kcsm could be subject to possible future sct action seeking revocation of the concession. such revocation would materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of kcsm. kcs ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm mexican operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including the recently implemented multiparty rule, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcsm financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and 19 table of contents canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs ability to obtain dollars or to convert pesos into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent kcs may have to effect those conversions, and could adversely affect the company investment in kcsm. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs business and financial condition. mexican national politicians are currently focused on certain regional, political and social tensions, and reforms regarding fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security, and oil have not been and may not be approved. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition, and results of operation. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate would likely have adverse effects on kcs business and results of operations. the level and timing of kcs mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economy or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs business results of operations and the company ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations at the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs control, including increased government regulations in light of recent concerns regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs business and results of operations. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness. severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the u.s. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs securities. currency fluctuations are likely to continue to have an effect on kcs financial condition in future periods. mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future which could adversely affect kcs results of operations. mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may experience high inflation in the future. during most of the 1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. the annual rates of inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in the national consumer price index, as provided by banco de m xico, were 3.6% in 2009, 6.5% in 2008 and 3.8% in 2007. a substantial 20 table of contents increase in the mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of kcsm costs, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. high levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between mexico and the united states, and other countries, which could adversely affect kcsm results of operations. risk factors relating to ongoing litigation kcs is party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions arising in the ordinary course of business including those specifically mentioned below: kcsm was named as a defendant in a lawsuit, which if adversely resolved, could result in kcs being ordered to return the stock of kcsm to the federal government of mexico, thus losing its concession to operate its mexican railroad. on december 9, 2009, kcsm was notified of a lawsuit filed by minera m xico, s.a. de c.v. ( minera m xico ), a subsidiary of grupo m xico, s.a.b. de c.v. and an affiliate of ferromex, against the federal government of mexico, the sct, ferrocarriles nacionales de m xico ( fnm ), kcsm, nafta rail, s.a. de c.v., a subsidiary of kcs ( nafta rail ), and kcs. the lawsuit claims that after the privatization bidding process for the acquisition of a majority interest in ferrocarril del noreste, s.a. de c.v. ( fne ) (now kcsm) had concluded in 1997, in which the bidding was awarded to transportaci n ferroviaria mexicana, s. de r.l. de c.v. ( tfm ) and the relevant stock purchase agreement was signed, the defendants improperly amended the stock purchase agreement and the purchasers paid a price lower than the price offered. the lawsuit alleges that the mexican federal government, the sct, fnm, kcsm, nafta rail and kcs violated a variety of the rules and regulations associated with the privatization bidding process. as a result of these alleged improprieties, minera m xico claims the acquisition of fne by kcs (through tfm) should be declared null and void and, consequently, the capital stock of fne should be returned to the federal government of mexico and minera m xico, as the second place bidder in the bidding process, should be awarded the right to purchase the capital stock of fne. on february 9, 2010, minera m xico agreed to dismiss this lawsuit. kcsm is involved in several disputes related to providing service to a mexican subsidiary of a large u.s. auto manufacturer, which if adversely resolved could have a negative impact on its business and operations. in march 2008, a mexican subsidiary of a large u.s. auto manufacturer (the auto manufacturer ) filed an arbitration suit against kcsm under a contract for services to the auto manufacturer plants in mexico, which, as amended, had a stated termination date of january 31, 2008. the auto manufacturer claimed that the contract was implicitly extended and continued in effect beyond its stated termination date. the auto manufacturer is seeking a declaration by the arbitrator that the rates being assessed by kcsm are discriminatory, even though the rates being charged are within the legal rate limits set by mexican law for such freight transportation. kcsm claimed that the contract did in fact expire on its stated termination date, and that services rendered thereafter are thus subject to the general terms and conditions (including rates) applicable in the absence of a specific contract, pursuant to mexican law. accordingly, kcsm filed a counterclaim against the auto manufacturer to, among other things, recover the applicable rate difference between the rates under the contract and kcsm rates. on may 18, 2009, the arbitrator issued an award on the first phase of the arbitration proceeding, ruling that the contract had terminated on may 8, 2008. as of the date of this filing, the second phase of the arbitration proceeding, regarding the claim that the rates assessed by kcsm are discriminatory, is in the evidentiary stage and has not been resolved. management believes the final resolution of these claims will not have any material impact on kcsm results of operations. in may 2008, the sct initiated a proceeding against kcsm at the request of the auto manufacturer, alleging that kcsm impermissibly bundled international rail services and engaged in discriminatory pricing practices with respect to rail services provided by kcsm to the auto manufacturer. in march 2009, the sct issued a decision determining that kcsm had engaged in the activities alleged, but imposed no sanction since 21 table of contents this was the first time kcsm had engaged in such activities. on may 6, 2009, kcsm challenged the sct decision and the appeal is currently pending in the administrative and fiscal federal court. on july 23, 2008, the sct delivered notice to kcsm of new proceedings against kcsm, claiming, among other things, that kcsm refused to grant ferromex access to certain trackage over which ferromex alleges it has trackage rights on six different occasions and thus denied ferromex the ability to provide service to the auto manufacturer at this location. kcsm believes it has defenses to the imposition of sanctions for the forgoing proceedings and is vigorously contesting these allegations. kcsm does not believe that these sct proceedings will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. however, if kcsm is ultimately sanctioned by the sct for generic sanctions on five occasions over the term of the concession, kcsm could be subject to possible future sct action seeking revocation of the concession. revocation of the concession would materially adversely affect kcsm results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks, but these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness totaled $350.6 million and $443.9 million at december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. a credit agreement, comprised of a revolving credit facility and term loan facilities, contains variable rate debt which accrues interest based on target interest indexes (london interbank offered rate libor or an alternative base rate) plus an applicable spread, as set forth in the credit agreement. the company has an aggregate notional amount of $250.0 million of interest rate hedges at december 31, 2009, which effectively convert interest payments from variable rates to fixed rates. given the balance of $100.6 million at december 31, 2009 of variable rate debt net of interest rate hedges, kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of $1.0 million on an annualized basis for the net floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2009. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of debt was approximately $2,031.1 million and $1,911.5 million at december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, compared with a carrying value of $1,980.0 million and $2,086.1 million at december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2009 and 2008, kcs did not have any outstanding fuel swap agreements. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to mirror market conditions in 2010, however, fuel cost are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company control. kcs is able to reduce the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers. assuming annual consumption of 110 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause an $11.0 million change in operating expenses. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcsm uses the dollar as its functional currency. earnings from kcsm included in the company results of operations reflect revaluation gains and losses that kcsm records in the process of remeasuring certain transactions from pesos to dollars. therefore, the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the peso. kcs manages this risk by monitoring its peso denominated cash inflows and outflows. for example, a hypothetical 10% increase in the u.s. dollar to the mexican peso exchange rate on net peso denominated monetary assets of ps.495 million would result in a loss of approximately $3.4 million and a 10% decrease in the exchange rate would result in a gain of approximately $4.2 million. 47 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. generally, these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data - - note 11" in this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to the company. interest rate sensitivity the company's floating-rate indebtedness totaled $149.3 million and $397.5 million at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. the company's variable rate debt, comprised of a revolving credit facility and a term loan, accrues interest based on target interest indexes (e.g., libor, federal funds rate, etc.) plus an applicable spread, as set forth in the credit agreement. see "recent developments - debt refinancing - new credit agreement" for further information. as a result of the refinancing of $200 million of variable rate debt with the 7 1/2% notes, the company has been able to reduce its sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates compared to previous years. however, given the balance of $149.3 million variable rate debt at december 31, 2002, the company is still sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of approximately $1.5 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments held by the company as of december 31, 2002. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of the company's long-term debt was approximately $616.9 million at december 31, 2002 and $681 million at december 31, 2001. page 55 one of the company's objectives is to manage its interest rate risk through the use of derivative instruments. in 2000, the company entered into five separate interest rate cap agreements for an aggregate notional amount of $200 million, which were designated as cash flow hedges. these interest rate cap agreements were designed to hedge the company's exposure to movements in the libor on which the company's variable rate interest is calculated. $100 million of the aggregate notional amount provided a cap on the company's libor based interest rate of 7.25% plus the applicable spread, while $100 million limited the libor based interest rate to 7% plus the applicable spread. by holding these interest rate cap agreements, the company was able to limit the risk of rising interest rates on its variable rate debt. these interest rate cap agreements expired during 2002 and as of december 31, 2002, the company did not have any other interest rate cap agreements or interest rate hedging instruments. commodity price sensitivity fuel expense is a significant component of the company's operating expenses. fuel costs are affected by (i) traffic levels, (ii) efficiency of operations and equipment, and (iii) fuel market conditions. controlling fuel expenses is a top priority of management. as a result, from time to time, the company will enter into transactions to hedge against fluctuations in the price of its diesel fuel purchases to protect the company's operating results against adverse fluctuations in fuel prices. kcsr enters into forward diesel fuel purchase commitments and commodity swap transactions (fuel swaps or caps) as a means of fixing future fuel prices. forward purchase commitments are used to secure fuel volumes at competitive prices. these contracts normally require the company to purchase defined quantities of diesel fuel at prices established at the origination of the contract. commodity swap or cap transactions are accounted for as hedges under sfas 133 and are typically based on the price of heating oil #2, which the company believes to produce a high correlation to the price of diesel fuel. these transactions are generally settled monthly in cash with the counterparty. positions are monitored to ensure that they will not exceed actual fuel requirements in any period. at december 31, 1999, the company was party to two diesel fuel cap transactions for a total of six million gallons (approximately 10% of expected 2000 usage) at a cap price of $0.60 per gallon. the contract prices for these diesel fuel cap transactions did not include taxes, transportation costs or other incremental fuel handling costs. these hedging instruments expired during 2000. the company received approximately $0.8 million during 2000 related to these diesel fuel cap transactions and recorded the proceeds as a reduction of diesel fuel expenses. at december 31, 1999, the company did not have any outstanding purchase commitments for 2000. at december 31, 2000, kcsr had purchase commitments for approximately 12.6% of budgeted gallons of fuel for 2001, which resulted in higher fuel expense of approximately $0.4 million in 2001. there were no fuel swap or cap transactions outstanding at december 31, 2000. at december 31, 2001, kcsr had purchase commitments for approximately 39% of its budgeted gallons of fuel for 2002, which resulted in a decrease in fuel expenses of approximately $0.4 million in 2002. there were no diesel fuel cap or swap transactions outstanding as of december 31, 2001. at december 31, 2002, kcsr had purchase commitments and was a party to a fuel swap transaction, which, on a combined basis, resulted in approximately 21% of expected 2003 diesel fuel usage. on january 14, 2003, kcsr entered into an additional fuel swap transaction, which raised the total hedged gallons to approximately 25% of budgeted 2003 diesel fuel usage. kcsr is also a party to swap transactions for approximately 2.5 million gallons of fuel for 2004. the commodity swap transaction entered into prior to december 31, 2002 is recorded on the accompanying balance sheet at its fair market value, which approximates $0.2 million at december 31, 2002. see "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - other - derivative instruments and purchase commitments." the excess of payments to be received or savings to be realized over the current market price at december 31, 2002 related to the diesel fuel purchase commitments and fuel swap transactions approximated $1.8 million and $0.6 million, respectively, at december 31, 2002. the excess of current market prices for diesel fuel purchase commitments over the payments to be made under such commitments approximated $2.6 million at december 31, 2001. a hypothetical 10% increase in the price of diesel fuel would have resulted in additional fuel expense of approximately $3.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2002. page 56 at december 31, 2002, the company held fuel inventories for use in normal operations. these inventories were not material to the company's overall financial position. with the exception of the 16.6% of fuel currently under forward purchase commitments and 8.8% of fuel currently hedged under fuel swap transactions for 2003, fuel costs are expected to mirror market conditions in 2003. foreign exchange sensitivity the company owns a 46.6% interest in grupo tfm, incorporated in mexico. in connection with the company's investment in grupo tfm, matters arise with respect to financial accounting and reporting for foreign currency transactions and for translating foreign currency transactions into u.s. dollars. the company uses the u.s. dollar as the functional currency for grupo tfm. equity earnings (losses) from grupo tfm included in the company's results of operations reflect the company's share of any such translation gains and losses that grupo tfm records in the process of translating certain transactions from mexican pesos to u.s. dollars. therefore, the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso. while not currently utilizing foreign currency instruments to hedge the company's u.s. dollar investment in grupo tfm, the company continues to evaluate existing alternatives as market conditions and exchange rates fluctuate. page 57quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. generally, these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this form 10-k and note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, which are hereby incorporated by reference, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity our floating-rate indebtedness totaled $249.2 million and $98.5 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. our variable rate debt, comprised of a revolving credit facility and a term loan, accrues interest based on target interest indexes (e.g., london interbank offered rate libor, federal funds rate, etc.) plus an applicable spread, as set forth in the credit agreement. as a result of the 2002 refinancing of $200 million of variable rate debt with the 7 1 / 2 % notes, we have been able to reduce our sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates compared to previous years. however, given the balance of $249.2 million variable rate debt at december 31, 2004, we are still sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of approximately $2.5 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments held by kcs as of december 31, 2004. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of our long-term debt was approximately $704 million at december 31, 2004 and $558 million at december 31, 2003. commodity price sensitivity as described in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other derivative instruments of this form 10-k, kcs participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2004, kcs was a party to one fuel swap agreement. based on market prices at december 31, 2004, we would receive payments from the third party counterparty of approximately $1.1 million on the settlement date of the agreement, representing the excess of the current market price over the agreed upon swap price. if market prices of fuel dropped below the swap price, then kcs would be obligated to pay an amount equal to the difference between the market price and the swap price for each gallon of fuel hedged. at december 31, 2003, based on market prices in effect at that time, we would have received payments from the third party counterparty of approximately $0.9 million on the settlement date of the agreement, representing the excess of the current market prices over the agreed upon swap price. a hypothetical 10% increase in the price of diesel fuel would have resulted in additional fuel expense of approximately $6.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2004. 52 table of contents at december 31, 2004, we held fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories were not material to our overall financial position. with the exception of the 4% of fuel currently hedged under fuel swap transactions for 2005, fuel costs are expected to mirror market conditions in 2005. foreign exchange sensitivity we own a 46.6% interest in grupo tfm, incorporated in mexico. in connection with our investment in grupo tfm, matters arise with respect to financial accounting and reporting for foreign currency transactions and for translating foreign currency transactions into u.s. dollars. grupo tfm uses the u.s. dollar as its functional currency. equity earnings (losses) from grupo tfm included in our results of operations reflect our share of any such translation gains and losses that grupo tfm records in the process of translating certain transactions from mexican pesos to u.s. dollars. therefore, we have exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso. while not currently utilizing foreign currency instruments to hedge our u.s. dollar investment in grupo tfm, we continue to evaluate existing alternatives as market conditions and exchange rates fluctuate. 53 table of contents [this page intentionally left blank] 54 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors we compete against other railroads and other transportation providers. our domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, many of which are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources. in addition, we are subject to competition from truck carriers and from barge lines and other maritime shipping. increased 11 table of contents competition has resulted in downward pressure on freight rates. competition with other railroads and other modes of transportation is generally based on the rates charged, the quality and reliability of the service provided and the quality of the carrier equipment for certain commodities. while we must build or acquire and maintain our infrastructure, truck carriers and maritime shippers and barges are able to use public rights-of -way. continuing competitive pressures and declining margins, future improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which we operate, or legislation that provides motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and less weight restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. if the railroad industry in general, and our mexican operations in particular, are unable to preserve their competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, our projected revenues could be adversely affected. additionally, the revenue growth attributable to our mexican operations could be affected by, among other factors, its inability to grow its existing customer base, negative macroeconomic developments impacting the u.s. and mexican economies, and failure to capture additional cargo transport market share from the shipping industry and other railroads. nafta called for mexican trucks to have unrestricted access to highways in u.s. border states by 1995 and full access to all u.s. highways by january 2000. however, the u.s. has not followed the timetable because of concerns over mexico trucking safety standards. in february 2001, a nafta tribunal ruled in arbitration between the u.s. and mexico that the u.s. must allow mexican trucks to cross the border and operate on u.s. highways. on march 14, 2002, as part of its agreement under nafta, the u.s. department of transportation issued safety rules that allow mexican truckers to apply for operating authority to transport goods beyond the 20-mile commercial zones along the unites states-mexico border. these safety rules require mexican carriers seeking to operate in the u.s. to pass, among other things, safety inspections; to obtain valid insurance with a u.s. registered insurance company, to conduct alcohol and drug testing for drivers and to obtain a u.s. department of transportation identification number. mexican commercial vehicles with authority to operate beyond the commercial zones will be permitted to enter the u.s. only at commercial border crossings and only when a certified motor carrier safety inspector is on duty. given these recent developments, there can be no assurance that truck transport between mexico and the u.s. will not increase substantially in the future. such an increase could affect our ability to continue converting traffic to rail from truck transport because it may result in an expansion of the availability, or an improvement of the quality, of the trucking services offered in mexico. through the concession with the mexican government, kcsm has the right to control and operate the southern half of the rail-bridge at nuevo laredo, mexico. under the concession, kcsm must grant to ferromex the right to operate over a north-south portion of its rail lines between ramos arizpe near monterrey and the city of queretaro that constitutes over 600 kilometers of kcsm main track. using these trackage rights, ferromex may be able to compete with kcsm over its rail lines for traffic between mexico city and the u.s. the concession also requires kcsm to grant rights to use certain portions of its tracks to ferrosur and ftvm, thereby providing ferrosur with more efficient access to certain mexico city industries. as a result of having to grant trackage rights to other railroads, we incur additional maintenance costs and lose the flexibility of using a portion of our tracks at all times. in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among major north american rail carriers. the resulting merged railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have been historically available. there can be no assurance that further consolidation will not have an adverse effect on our operations. our business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on joint ventures and other strategic alliances. operation of our integrated rail network and our plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on joint ventures and other strategic alliances. our operations are dependent on interchange, trackage rights, 12 table of contents haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable us to exchange traffic and utilize trackage we do not own. our ability to provide comprehensive rail service to our customers depends in large part upon our ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are also dependent in part upon the financial health and efficient performance of other railroads. for example, much of tex-mex traffic moves over the up lines via trackage rights, a significant portion of our grain shipments originate with ic e pursuant to our marketing agreement with it, and bnsf is our largest partner in the interchange of rail traffic. there can be no assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. pursuant to the concession, kcsm is required to grant rights to use portions of its tracks to ferromex, ferrosur and the ftvm. applicable law stipulates that ferromex, ferrosur and the ftvm are required to grant to kcsm rights to use portions of their tracks. applicable law provides that the ministry of transportation is entitled to set the rates in the event that kcsm and the party to whom it is granting the rights cannot agree on a rate. kcsm and ferromex have not been able to agree upon the rates each of them is required to pay the other for interline services and haulage and trackage rights. in february 2001, kcsm initiated an administrative proceeding requesting a determination of such rates by the ministry of transportation, which subsequently issued a ruling establishing rates using certain criteria. kcsm and ferromex appealed the rulings before the mexican federal courts due to, among other things, a disagreement with the methodology employed by the ministry of transportation in calculating the trackage rights and interline rates. kcsm and ferromex also requested and obtained a suspension of the effectiveness of the ruling pending resolution of the litigation. in february 2006, the mexican supreme court issued a favorable decision upholding kcsm position concerning the methodology for establishing rates for trackage rights. this decision is not subject to further appeal. the ministry of transportation now has the responsibility to establish rates for trackage rights consistent with the court decision. the litigation concerning the methodology for establishing rates for interline services is still pending. our leverage could adversely affect our ability to fulfill obligations under various debt instruments and operate our business. our level of debt could make it more difficult for us to borrow money in the future, will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities, including capital expenditures, exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates, makes us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions, could reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions, and may prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all of certain senior notes that could be tendered upon the occurrence of a change of control, which would constitute an event of default under the terms of the indentures for such senior notes. our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments, which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. if we do not have enough cash to service our debt, meet other obligations and fund other liquidity needs, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure that any of these remedies, including obtaining appropriate waivers from our lenders or new facilities, can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. the indebtedness of kcsm exposes us to risks in exchange rate fluctuations, because any devaluation of the peso would cause the cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase; and place us at a competitive disadvantage in mexico compared to our mexican competitors that have less debt and greater operating and financing flexibility than kcsm does. 13 table of contents our business is capital intensive and requires substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things, improvements to roadway, structures and technology, acquisitions, leases and repair of equipment, and maintenance of our rail system. our failure to make necessary capital expenditures to maintain our operations could impair our ability to accommodate increases in traffic volumes or service existing customers. in addition, the concession requires us to make investments and undertake capital projects, including capital projects described in a business plan filed by kcsm every five years with the mexican government. we may defer capital expenditures with respect to kcsm five-year business plan with the permission of the ministry of transportation. however, the ministry of transportation may not grant this permission, and kcsm failure to comply with the commitments in its business plan could result in the mexican government revoking the concession. our business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic, weather or other conditions. our operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that we transport. pcrc and panarail tourism company are directly affected by its local economy. our investment in pcrc has risks associated with operating in panama, including, among others, cultural differences, varying labor and operating practices, political risk and differences between the u.s. and panamanian economies. historically, a stronger economy has resulted in improved results for our rail transportation operations. conversely, when the economy has slowed, results have been less favorable. our revenues may be affected by prevailing economic conditions and, if an economic slowdown or recession occurs in our key markets, the volume of rail shipments is likely to be reduced. our operations also may be affected by adverse weather conditions. we operate in and along the gulf coast of the u.s., and our facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. for example, recent hurricanes have adversely affected some of our shippers located along the gulf coast and caused interruptions in the flow of traffic within the southern u.s. and between the u.s. and mexico. as another example, a weak harvest in the midwest may substantially reduce the volume of business handled for agricultural products customers. many of the goods and commodities we transport experience cyclical demand. our results of operations can be expected to reflect this cyclical demand because of the significant fixed costs inherent in railroad operations. our operations may also be affected by natural disasters or terrorist acts. significant reductions in our volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market segment that may influence operating results. some of our customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive and agricultural sectors. any downturn in these sectors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. also, some of the products we transport have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality, which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. for example, global steel and petrochemical prices have decreased in the past. we cannot assure you that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, our financial results. our business is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies. our failure to comply with various federal, state and local regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we are subject to governmental regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to our railroad operations, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and other matters. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the 14 table of contents competitiveness and profitability of railroads. our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations, including limitations on our operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is completed. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which we operate without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on our business that occurs as a result of this change. additionally, some of the regulations require us to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to do so. our business is subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could require us to incur material costs or liabilities relating to environmental, health or safety compliance or remediation. our operations are subject to extensive international, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters, the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials, the cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases, decommissioning of underground storage tanks and noise pollution. violations of these laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties, permit revocations, facility shutdowns and other civil and criminal sanctions. from time to time, our facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurances that we will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, new spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in the operation of a railroad, it is possible that derailments, explosions or other accidents may occur that could cause harm to the environment or to human health. as a result, we may incur costs in the future, which may be material, to address any such harm, including costs relating to the performance of clean-ups, natural resources damages and compensatory or punitive damages relating to harm to property or individuals. the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ( cercla or superfund ) and similar state laws (known as superfund laws ) impose liability for the cost of remedial or removal actions, natural resources damages and related costs at certain sites identified as posing a threat to the environment or public health. cercla imposes joint, strict and several liabilities on the owners and operators of facilities in which hazardous waste and other hazardous substances are deposited or from which they are released or are likely to be released into the environment. liability may be imposed, without regard to fault or the legality of the activity, on certain classes of persons, including the current and certain prior owners or operators of a site where hazardous substances have been released and persons that arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances. in addition, other potentially responsible parties, adjacent landowners or other third parties may initiate cost recovery actions or toxic tort litigation against sites subject to cercla or similar state laws. given the nature of our business, we presently have environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, including a former foundry site in alexandria, louisiana, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. although we have accrued for environmental liabilities, some of these accruals have been reduced for amounts we expect to recover from third party recoveries. we cannot assure you that the costs associated with these obligations will not be material or exceed the accruals we have established. our mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. the primary environmental law in mexico is the general law of ecological balance and environmental protection (the ecological law ). the mexican federal agency in charge of overseeing compliance with and enforcement of the federal environmental law is the ministry of environmental protection and natural resources ( semarnat ). the regulations issued under the mexican ecological law and technical environmental requirements issued by semarnat have promulgated 15 table of contents standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. as part of its enforcement powers, semarnat is empowered to bring administrative and criminal proceedings and impose economic sanctions against companies that violate environmental laws, and temporarily or even permanently close non-complying facilities. under the ecological law, the mexican government has implemented a program to protect the environment by promulgating rules concerning water, land, air and noise pollution, and hazardous substances. we are also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcsm results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. our business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. any significant increase in the cost of fuel, or severe disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we incur substantial fuel costs in our railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of our transportation expenses. fuel expense has increased from approximately 12% of our consolidated operating costs for the full year 2004 to its current level representing approximately 16% of our consolidated operating costs for 2005. this increase has been, in part, offset by fuel surcharges applied to our customer billings. if we are unable to continue the existing fuel surcharge program at kcsr and expand the fuel surcharge program for kcsm, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. fuel costs are affected by traffic levels, efficiency of operations and equipment, and petroleum market conditions. the supply and cost of fuel is subject to market conditions and is influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, world markets, government programs and regulations and competition. in addition, instability in the middle east and interruptions in domestic production and refining due to hurricane damage may result in an increase in fuel prices. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. additionally, fuel prices and supplies could also be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply or by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. in the event of a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war or otherwise, the resulting impact on fuel prices and subsequent price increases could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. we currently meet, and expect to continue to meet, fuel requirements for our mexican operations almost exclusively through purchases at market prices from petroleos mexicanos, the national oil company of mexico ( pemex ), a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated and we are unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, our mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. a majority of our employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our operations. we are a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the u.s. approximately 82% of kcsr employees are covered under these agreements. similarly, approximately 71% of kcsm employees are subject to collective labor contracts. we may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes with regard to the terms of these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the u.s., because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of future labor agreements could be beyond our control and, as a result, we may be subject to terms and conditions in amended or future labor agreements that could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if the unionized workers in the u.s. or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or 16 table of contents other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. our business may be subject to various claims and lawsuits. the nature of the railroad business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury and property damage, environmental and other matters. we maintain insurance (including self-insurance) consistent with the industry practice against accident-related risks involved in the operation of the railroad. however, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages suffered or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. any material changes to current litigation trends could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. due to the nature of railroad operations, claims related to personal injuries and third party liabilities resulting from crossing collisions and derailments, as well as claims related to personal property damage and other casualties is a substantial expense to kcs. personal injury and casualty claims are subject to a significant degree of uncertainty, especially estimates related to personal injuries which have occurred but not yet been reported, therefore, the degree to which injuries have been incurred and the related costs have not yet been determined. further, the cost of casualty claims is related to numerous factors, including the severity of the injury, the age of the claimant, and the legal jurisdiction. in determining the provision for casualty claims, management must make estimates regarding future costs related to substantially uncertain matters. changes in these estimates could have a material effect on the results of operations in future periods. our business may be affected by future acts of terrorism or war. terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on september 11, 2001, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. these acts may also impact our ability to raise capital or our future business opportunities. our rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act or acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues. these acts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available in the future. additional risk factors relating to our operations in mexico the concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances. the mexican government may terminate the concession granted to kcsm as a result of kcsm surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest, by revocation or upon kcsm liquidation or bankruptcy. the mexican government may also temporarily seize kcsm assets and its rights under the concession. the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the ministry of communications and transports ( ministry of transportation ) may revoke the concession upon the occurrence of specified events, some of which will trigger automatic revocation. revocation or termination of the concession would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would materially adversely affect our mexican operations and ability to make payments on our debt. in the event that the concession is revoked by the ministry of transportation, kcsm will receive no compensation, and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, will revert to the mexican government. our ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject us to political and economic risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned 17 table of contents enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on our mexican operations in particular, as well as on market conditions, prices and returns on mexican securities, including kcsm outstanding notes. the national elections held on july 2, 2000 ended 71 years of rule by the institutional revolutionary party with the election of president vicente fox quesada, a member of the national action party, and resulted in the increased representation of opposition parties in the mexican congress and in mayoral and gubernatorial positions. national elections will be held again on july 2, 2006. although there have not yet been any material adverse repercussions resulting from this political change, multiparty rule is still relatively new in mexico and could result in economic or political conditions that could materially and adversely affect our mexican operations. we cannot predict the impact that this new political landscape will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects and, consequently, the market price for kcsm outstanding notes, may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. however, mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat thereof in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by u.s. and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect our ability to obtain dollars or to convert pesos into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent that it may have to effect those conversions. this could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. securities of companies in emerging market countries tend to be influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. emerging market countries, including argentina and brazil, have recently been experiencing significant economic downturns and market volatility. these events have had an adverse effect on the economic conditions and securities markets of emerging market countries, including mexico. our mexican operations may also be adversely affected by currency fluctuations, price instability, inflation, interest rates, regulations, taxation, cultural differences, social instability, labor disputes and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. downturns in the u.s. economy or in trade between the u.s. and mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate would likely have adverse effects on our business and results of operations. the level and timing of our mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of u.s.-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. downturns in the u.s. or mexican economy or in trade between the u.s. and mexico would likely have adverse effects on our business and results of operations. our mexican operations depend on the u.s. and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the u.s. in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. any future downturn in the u.s. economy could have a material adverse effect on kcsm results of operations and its ability to meet its debt service obligations as described above. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the u.s. may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in u.s.-mexican trade beyond our control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness. severe devaluation or 18 table of contents depreciation of the peso may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit our ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of our u.s. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for our securities. currency fluctuations are likely to continue to have an effect on our financial condition in future periods. mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future which could adversely affect our results of operations. mexico has a history of high levels of inflation, and may experience high inflation in the future. during most of the 1980s and during the mid- and late-1990s, mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. the annual rates of inflation for the last five years, as measured by changes in the national consumer price index, as provided by banco de mexico ranged from 4% to 5.7%. a substantial increase in the mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of kcsm costs, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. high levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between mexico and the u.s., and other countries, which could adversely affect kcsm results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. generally, these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this form 10-k and note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, which are hereby incorporated by reference, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity our floating-rate indebtedness totaled $440.9 million and $249.2 million at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. our two credit agreements, each comprised of a revolving credit facility and a term loan facility, contain variable rate debt which accrues interest based on target interest indexes (e.g., london interbank offered rate libor, federal funds rate, etc.) plus an applicable spread, as set forth in each credit agreement. given the balance of $440.9 million variable rate debt at december 31, 2005, we are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of approximately $4.4 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments held by kcs as of december 31, 2005. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of our long-term debt was approximately $1,938.6 million at december 31, 2005 and $704 million at december 31, 2004. commodity price sensitivity as described in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other derivative instruments of this form 10-k, kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2005, kcs was not a party to any fuel swap agreements. subsequent to december 31, 2005 kcs entered into fuel swap agreements for 3.2 million gallons. we also hold fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to our overall financial position. with the exception of the fuel currently hedged under fuel swap transactions for 2006, fuel costs are expected to mirror market conditions in 2005. assuming annual consumption of 140 million gallons, a $0.10 change in the price of fuel would result in an increase in operating expenses of $14 million. 61 table of contents foreign exchange sensitivity in connection with our acquisition of kcsm, matters arise with respect to financial accounting and reporting for foreign currency transactions and for translating foreign currency transactions into u.s. dollars. kcsm uses the u.s. dollar as its functional currency. earnings (losses) from kcsm included in our results of operations reflect any such translation gains and losses that kcsm records in the process of translating certain transactions from mexican pesos to u.s. dollars. therefore, we have exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso. while not currently utilizing foreign currency instruments to hedge our u.s. dollar investment in kcsm, we continue to evaluate existing alternatives as market conditions and exchange rates fluctuate. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors risks related to an investment in kcs common stock the price of kcs common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they want to or at prices they find attractive. the price of kcs common stock on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) constantly changes. the company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate. the company stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond kcs control. these factors include, but are not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; developments generally affecting the railroad industry; announcements by kcs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings against kcs; kcs dividend policy and restrictions on the payment of dividends; future sales of kcs equity or equity-linked securities; the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, from time to time the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of kcs common stock. kcs ability to pay dividends on its common stock is currently restricted, and kcs does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. kcs has agreed, and may agree in the future, to restrictions on its ability to pay dividends on its common stock. in addition, to maintain its credit ratings, the company may be limited in its ability to pay dividends on its common stock so that it can maintain an appropriate level of debt. during the first quarter of 2000, the board of directors suspended common stock dividends. kcs does not anticipate making any cash dividend payments to its common stockholders for the foreseeable future. holders of the series c preferred stock and series d preferred stock may have special voting rights if kcs fails to pay dividends on that preferred stock over a stated number of quarters. because of certain restrictions in the indentures governing notes issued by kcsr, kcs did not pay dividends on its series c preferred stock or series d preferred stock commencing on may 15, 2006, for the first quarter of 2006 until those dividend arrearages were made up in february 2007. if dividends on the series c preferred stock or series d preferred stock are in arrears for six consecutive quarters (or an equivalent number of days in the aggregate, whether or not consecutive) holders of the series c preferred stock or series d preferred stock, as applicable, will be entitled to elect two of the authorized number of directors at the next annual stockholders meeting at which directors are elected and at each subsequent stockholders meeting until such time as all accumulated dividends are paid on the series c preferred stock or 7 table of contents series d preferred stock, as applicable, or set aside for payment. in addition, kcs will not be eligible to register future offerings of securities on form s-3 or to avail itself of the other benefits available to companies that qualify as well-known seasoned issuers under sec rules if kcs fails to pay dividends on its preferred stock. this could adversely affect kcs ability to access capital markets, and increase the cost of accessing capital markets, until the company qualifies as a well-known seasoned issuer. sales of substantial amounts of kcs common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. as of december 31, 2006, there were 10,607,068 shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991 amended and restated stock option and performance award plan and the employee stock purchase plan, 2,061,234 shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors outside those plans, and 20,389,113 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock. sales of common stock by employees upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and directors subject to compliance with rule 144 under the securities act, and sales of common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of kcs common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter, bylaws and rights agreement that could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring kcs and that could deprive an investor of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of kcs common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties. these provisions may deprive kcs stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. for example, the restated certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors. it further provides that the vote of 70% of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors is required to amend the restated certificate of incorporation to increase the number of directors to more than eighteen, abolish cumulative voting for directors and abolish the classification of the board. the same vote requirement is imposed by the restated certificate of incorporation on certain transactions involving mergers, consolidations, sales or leases of assets with or to certain owners of more than 5% of kcs outstanding stock entitled to vote in the election of directors. the bylaws provide that a stockholder must give the company advance written notice of its intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual meeting. in addition, the company has adopted a rights agreement which under certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to acquire control of kcs without prior approval of the board of directors. risks related to kcs business kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, in particular the union pacific railroad company ( up ) and bnsf railway company ( bnsf ) in the united states and ferromex in mexico. many of kcs rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs. in addition, the company is subject to competition from truck carriers and from barge lines and other maritime shipping. increased competition could result in downward pressure on freight rates. competition with other railroads and other modes of transportation is generally based on the rates charged, the quality and reliability of the service provided and the quality of the carrier equipment for certain commodities. while kcs must build or acquire and maintain its infrastructure, truck carriers, maritime shippers and barges are able to use public rights-of-way. the trucking industry has in the past provided effective rate and service competition to the railroad industry. trucking requires substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allows for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, 8 table of contents such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. a material part of kcs growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will have the ability to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general, and the mexican operations in particular, are unable to preserve their competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, projected revenue growth from the mexican operations could be adversely affected. additionally, the revenue growth attributable to the mexican operations could be affected by, among other factors, kcs inability to grow its existing customer base, negative macroeconomic developments impacting the united states or mexican economies, and failure to capture additional cargo transport market share from the shipping industry and other railroads. nafta called for mexican trucks to have unrestricted access to highways in united states border states by 1995 and full access to all united states highways by january 2000. however, the united states did not follow that timetable because of concerns over mexico trucking safety standards. in february 2001, a nafta tribunal ruled in an arbitration between the united states and mexico that the united states must allow mexican trucks to cross the border and operate on united states highways. on march 14, 2002, as part of its agreement under nafta, the u.s. department of transportation issued safety rules that allow mexican truckers to apply for operating authority to transport goods beyond the 20-mile commercial zones along the united states-mexico border. these safety rules require mexican motor carriers seeking to operate in the united states to, among other things, pass safety inspections, obtain valid insurance with a united states registered insurance company, conduct alcohol and drug testing for drivers and obtain a u.s. department of transportation identification number. under the rules issued by the u.s. department of transportation, it was expected that the border would have been opened to mexican motor carriers in 2002. however, in january 2003, in response to a lawsuit filed in may 2002 by a coalition of environmental, consumer and labor groups, the u.s. court of appeals for the ninth circuit issued a ruling which held that the rules issued by the u.s. department of transportation violated federal environmental laws because the department of transportation failed to adequately review the impact on united states air quality of rules allowing mexican carriers to transport beyond the 20-mile commercial zones along the united states-mexico border. the court of appeals ruling required the department of transportation to provide an environmental impact statement on the mexican truck plan and to certify compliance with the united states clean air act. the department of transportation requested the united states supreme court to review the court of appeals ruling and, on december 15, 2003, the supreme court granted the department of transportation request. on june 7, 2004, the supreme court unanimously overturned the court of appeals ruling. although the department of transportation is no longer required to provide an environmental impact statement under the supreme court ruling, the united states and mexico must still complete negotiations on safety inspections before the border is opened. kcs cannot predict when these negotiations will be completed. there can be no assurance that truck transport between mexico and the united states will not increase substantially in the future if the united states and mexico complete the negotiations and the border is opened. any such increase in truck traffic could affect kcs ability to continue converting traffic to rail from truck transport because it may result in an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by mexican carriers. through kcsm concession from the mexican government, the company has the right to control and operate the southern half of the rail-bridge at laredo, texas. under the concession, kcsm must grant to ferromex the right to operate over a north-south portion of kcsm rail lines between ramos arizpe near monterrey and the city of queretaro that constitutes over 600 kilometers (360 miles) of kcsm main track. using these trackage rights, ferromex may be able to compete with kcsm over kcsm rail lines for traffic between mexico city and the united states. the concession also requires kcsm to grant rights to use certain portions of its tracks to ferrosur and the belt railroad operated in the greater mexico city area by ftvm, thereby providing ferrosur with more efficient access to certain mexico city industries. as a result of having to grant trackage rights to other railroads, kcsm loses the capacity of using a portion of its tracks at all times. 9 table of contents ferromex, the operator of the largest railway system in mexico, is in close proximity to kcsm rail lines. in particular, kcsm has experienced and continues to experience competition from ferromex with respect to the transport of a variety of products. the rail lines operated by ferromex run from guadalajara and mexico city to four united states border crossings west of the nuevo laredo-laredo crossing, providing an alternative to kcsm routes for the transport of freight from those cities to the united states border. in addition, ferromex directly competes with kcsm in some areas of its service territory, including tampico, saltillo, monterrey and mexico city. ferrosur competes directly with kcsm for traffic to and from southeastern mexico. ferrosur, like kcsm, also services mexico city and puebla. in november 2005, grupo m xico, the controlling shareholder of ferromex, acquired all of the shares of ferrosur. the common control of ferromex and ferrosur would give grupo m xico control over a nationwide railway system in mexico and ownership of 50% of the shares of ftvm. the merger between ferromex and ferrosur has been declared illegal by the mexican antitrust commission. both ferromex and ferrosur have challenged this ruling. there can be no assurance as to whether grupo m xico will be successful in challenging this ruling. if grupo m xico is successful in its appeal, kcsm competitive position may be harmed. on august 3, 2006, the mexican antitrust commission announced an investigation into possible antitrust practices in the provision of rail cargo services. the targets of that investigation have not been identified, and while kcsm may be required to provide information in connection with the investigation, the company does not believe kcsm operations are the subject of the inquiry, although there can be no assurance kcsm is not or would not become a subject of the inquiry. rate reductions by competitors could make kcs freight services less competitive, and kcs cannot assure that it would always be able to match these rate reductions. in recent years, kcs has experienced aggressive price competition from ferromex in freight rates for agricultural products, which has adversely affected results of operations. kcs ability to respond to competitive pressures by decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. in recent years, there has also been significant consolidation among major north american rail carriers. the resulting merged railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have been historically available. there can be no assurance that further consolidation in the railroad industry, whether in the united states or mexico, will not have an adverse effect on operations. kcs business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs integrated rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances. kcs operations are dependent on interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs business, financial condition and results of operations. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial health and efficient performance of other railroads. for example, traffic moves over the up lines via trackage rights, a significant portion of kcsr grain shipments originate with another rail carrier pursuant to marketing agreements with that carrier, and bnsf is kcs largest partner in the interchange of rail traffic. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. pursuant to the concession, kcsm is required to grant rights to use portions of its tracks to ferromex, ferrosur and ftvm. applicable law stipulates that ferromex, ferrosur and ftvm are required to grant to kcsm rights to use portions of their tracks. kcsm concession classifies trackage rights as short trackage 10 table of contents rights and long-distance trackage rights. although all of these trackage rights have been granted under the concession, no railroad has actually operated under the long-distance trackage rights because the means of setting rates for usage and often related terms of usage have not been agreed upon. under the mexican railroad services law and regulations, the rates kcsm may charge for the right to use its tracks must be agreed upon in writing between kcsm and the party to which those rights are granted. however, if kcsm cannot reach an agreement on rates with rail carriers entitled to trackage rights on kcsm rail lines, the sct is entitled to set the rates in accordance with mexican law and regulation, which rates may not adequately compensate kcsm. kcsm and ferromex have not been able to agree upon the rates each of them is required to pay the other for interline services and haulage and trackage rights. kcsm and ferromex are involved in civil, commercial and administrative proceedings in connection with amounts payable to each other for interline services, haulage and trackage rights. on march 13, 2002, the sct issued a ruling setting the rates for trackage and haulage rights. on august 5, 2002, the sct issued a ruling setting the rates for interline and terminal services. kcsm and ferromex appealed both rulings to the mexican supreme court. kcsm and ferromex also requested and obtained a suspension of the effectiveness of the sct rulings pending resolution of the litigation. in february 2006, the mexican supreme court sustained kcsm appeal of the sct trackage and haulage rights ruling, vacated the sct ruling and ordered the sct to issue a new ruling consistent with the court opinion. the company has not yet received the written opinion of the mexican supreme court on the february 2006 ruling, nor has the court decided the interline and terminal services appeal. on october 2, 2006, kcsm was served with a claim by ferromex asking for information concerning the interline traffic between kcsm and ferromex from january 1, 2002, to december 31, 2004. kcsm has filed an answer to this claim. kcs cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, or whether the rates kcsm is ultimately permitted to charge will be sufficient to adequately compensate it for the use of its tracks by ferromex. the company is highly leveraged and has significant debt service obligations. kcs leverage could adversely affect its ability to fulfill obligations under various debt instruments and operate its business. kcs level of debt could make it more difficult for it to borrow money in the future, may reduce the amount of money available to finance operations and other business activities, exposes the company to the risk of increased interest rates, makes it more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions, and could reduce flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions. kcs failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in its debt instruments, which, among other things, require kcs to maintain specified financial ratios and limit the ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on business or prospects. if the company does not have enough cash to service its debt, meet other obligations and fund other liquidity needs, kcs may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. kcs cannot assure that any of these remedies, including obtaining appropriate waivers from its lenders, can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict the company from adopting any of these alternatives. the indebtedness of kcsm exposes it to risks of exchange rate fluctuations, because any devaluation of the peso would cause the cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase, and could place the company at a competitive disadvantage in mexico compared to mexican competitors that have less debt and greater operating and financing flexibility than kcsm does. kcs business is capital intensive. the company business is capital intensive and requires substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things, additions and improvements to roadway, structures and technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of equipment and rail system. kcs failure to make necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could impair its ability to serve existing customers or accommodate increases in traffic volumes. 11 table of contents kcs has funded, and expects to continue to fund, capital expenditures with funds from operating cash flows, leases and, to a lesser extent, vendor financing. kcs may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure requirements. if financing is available, it may not be obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to kcs debt. kcsm concession from the mexican government requires kcsm to make investments and undertake capital projects. if kcsm is unable to make such capital investments, kcsm business plan commitments with the mexican government may be at risk, requiring kcsm to seek waivers of its business plan. there is no assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by the sct. kcsm may defer capital expenditures under its business plan with the permission of the sct. however, the sct might not grant this permission, and any failure by kcsm to comply with the capital investment commitments in its business plan could result in sanctions imposed by the sct. the company cannot assure that the mexican government would grant any such permission or waiver. if such permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and kcsm is sanctioned, its concession might be at risk of revocation, which would adversely affect kcs financial condition and results of operations. see kcsm mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances below. kcs business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic, weather or other conditions. kcs operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affect the businesses served by kcs. pcrc and panarail are directly affected by the panamanian local economy and trans-pacific trade flows. kcs investments in mexico and panama expose the company to risks associated with operating in mexico and panama, including, among others, cultural differences, varying labor and operating practices, political risk and differences between the united states, mexican and panamanian economies. historically, a stronger economy has resulted in improved results for kcs rail transportation operations. conversely, when the economy has slowed, results have been less favorable. kcs revenues may be affected by prevailing economic conditions and, if an economic slowdown or recession occurs in key markets, the volume of rail shipments is likely to be reduced. the company operations may also be affected by natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. the company operates in and along the gulf coast of the united states, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. for example, hurricanes have adversely affected some of the company shippers located along the gulf coast and caused interruptions in the flow of traffic within the southern united states and between the united states and mexico. as another example, a weak harvest in the midwest may substantially reduce the volume of business handled for agricultural products customers. many of the goods and commodities transported experience cyclical demand. kcs results of operations can be expected to reflect this cyclical demand because of the significant fixed costs inherent in railroad operations. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market segment that may influence operating results. some of kcs customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing and agricultural industries. any downturn in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. for example, global steel and petrochemical prices have decreased in the past. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company financial condition or results. 12 table of contents kcs business is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies. kcs failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on its operations. kcs is subject to governmental regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to its railroad operations, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and other matters. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. kcs failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on operations, including limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on its business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations, and kcs cannot assure that it will continue to be able to do so. the company business is subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could require kcs to incur material costs or liabilities relating to environmental, health or safety compliance or remediation. kcs operations are subject to extensive international, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters, the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials, the cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases, decommissioning of underground storage tanks and noise pollution. violations of these laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties, permit revocations, facility shutdowns and other civil and criminal sanctions. from time to time, certain of kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurances that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, new spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require kcs to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in the operation of a railroad, it is possible that derailments, explosions or other accidents may occur that could cause harm to the environment or to human life or health. as a result, kcs may incur costs in the future, which may be material, to address any such harm, including costs relating to the performance of clean-ups, natural resources damages and compensatory or punitive damages relating to harm to property or individuals. the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ( cercla or superfund ) and similar state laws (known as superfund laws ) impose liability for the cost of remedial or removal actions, natural resources damages and related costs at certain sites identified as posing a threat to the environment or public health. cercla imposes joint, strict and several liability on the owners and operators of facilities in which hazardous waste and other hazardous substances are deposited or from which they are released or are likely to be released into the environment. liability may be imposed, without regard to fault or the legality of the activity, on certain classes of persons, including the current and certain prior owners or operators of a site where hazardous substances have been released and persons that arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances. in addition, other potentially responsible parties, adjacent landowners or other third parties may initiate cost recovery actions or toxic tort litigation against sites subject to cercla or similar state laws. given the nature of its business, kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, including a former foundry site in alexandria, louisiana, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. although the recorded liability includes the best estimate of all probable costs, clean-up costs can not be predicted with any certainty due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, 13 table of contents changes in technology, the extent of other parties participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. the mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. the primary environmental law in mexico is the general law of ecological balance and environmental protection (the ecological law ). the mexican federal agency in charge of overseeing compliance with and enforcement of the federal environmental law is the ministry of environmental protection and natural resources ( semarnat ). the regulations issued under the ecological law and technical environmental requirements issued by semarnat have promulgated standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. as part of its enforcement powers, semarnat is empowered to bring administrative and criminal proceedings and impose economic sanctions against companies that violate environmental laws, and temporarily or even permanently close non-complying facilities. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm facilities are located. the terms of kcsm concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcsm results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. kcs business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. any significant increase in the cost of fuel, or severe disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations and financial condition. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. fuel expense increased from 16% of consolidated operating costs during 2005 to 19% of consolidated operating costs during 2006. kcs has been able to pass the majority of these fuel cost increases on to customers in the form of fuel surcharges applied to customer billings. if kcs is unable to continue the existing fuel surcharge program for kcsr and expand the fuel surcharge program for kcsm, operating results could be materially adversely affected. on january 26, 2007, the surface transportation board (the stb ) issued a decision finding that the assessment by railroads of fuel surcharges that are based on a percentage of the base rate charged is an unreasonable practice. railroads have 90 days following january 26 to comply with the decision. kcs is in the process of reviewing the manner by which it assesses fuel surcharges in order to timely comply with the decision. kcs cannot predict with certainty the impact that any changes to its fuel surcharge program may have on its business. fuel costs are affected by traffic levels, efficiency of operations and equipment, and petroleum market conditions. the supply and cost of fuel are subject to market conditions and are influenced by numerous factors beyond the company control, including general economic conditions, world markets, government programs and regulations and competition. in addition, instability in the middle east and interruptions in domestic production and refining due to hurricane damage may result in an increase in fuel prices. fuel prices and supplies could also be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply or by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. in the event of a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war or otherwise, the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs operating results, financial condition and cash flows. kcs currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel requirements for its mexican operations almost exclusively through purchases at market prices from petroleos mexicanos, the national oil company of mexico ( pemex ), a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated 14 table of contents and kcsm is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. the loss of key personnel could negatively affect business. kcs success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of the senior management team and the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. recruiting, motivating and retaining qualified management personnel, particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are vital to operations and success. there is substantial competition for qualified management personnel and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. employment agreements with senior management are terminable at any time by either party. if kcs loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its ability to successfully implement its business plans and the value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected. a majority of kcs employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2006, approximately 81% of kcsr employees and approximately 75% of kcsm employees were covered by collective labor contracts. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse affect on its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, if other employees were to become unionized, or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. kcs faces possible catastrophic loss and liability, and its insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to others. the operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision and property loss. in the course of kcs operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. collisions, environmental mishaps or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. additionally, kcs operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. the occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on kcs operations and financial condition. the company maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business and business interruption due to natural disaster. however, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. this insurance may not be sufficient to cover kcs damages or damages to others, and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, kcs may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations and an adverse effect on kcs financial condition. 15 table of contents kcs business may be affected by future acts of terrorism or war. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. these acts may also impact the company ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues. these acts could have a material adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the terrorism coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available in the future. kcsm mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances. kcsm operates under a 50-year concession granted by the mexican government. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage rights. the sct is principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico. the sct has broad powers to monitor kcsm compliance with the concession and it can require kcsm to supply it with any technical, administrative and financial information it requests. kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every five years. the sct treats kcsm business plans confidentially. the sct monitors kcsm compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct reviews, and may amend, these standards every five years. the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide the mexican government certain rights in its relationship with kcsm under the concession, including the right to take over the management of kcsm and its railroad in certain extraordinary cases, such as imminent danger to national security. in the past, the mexican government has used such power with respect to other privatized industries, including the telecommunications industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. in addition, under the concession and the mexican railroad services law and regulations, the sct, in consultation with the mexican antitrust commission, reserves the right to set tariffs if it determines that effective competition does not exist. the mexican antitrust commission, however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is therefore unclear under what particular circumstances the mexican antitrust commission would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the sct intervenes and sets tariffs, the rates it sets may be too low to allow kcsm to operate profitably. the concession is renewable for up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the sct may terminate the concession if, among other things, there is an unjustified interruption in the operation of kcsm rail lines, kcsm charges tariffs higher than the tariffs it has registered with the sct, kcsm restricts the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines, kcsm fails to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services, kcsm fails to comply with any term or condition of the mexican railroad services law and regulations, kcsm fails to make the capital investments required under its five-year business plan filed with the sct, or kcsm fails to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican railroad services law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession without the sct approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest, by revocation or upon kcsm liquidation or bankruptcy. revocation or termination of the concession would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would materially adversely affect the mexican operations and the ability to make payments on kcsm debt. if the concession is revoked by the sct, kcsm would receive no revenue, and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. in april 2006, the sct initiated sanction proceedings against kcsm, claiming that kcsm had failed to make the minimum capital investments projected for 2004 and 2005 under its five-year business plan filed with the sct. although the company believes kcsm made capital expenditures exceeding the amounts 16 table of contents projected in its business plan for 2004 and 2005, the sct has objected to the nature of the investments made by kcsm. kcsm has responded to the sct by providing evidence in support of its investments and explaining why it believes sanctions are not appropriate. the sct has not yet responded to kcsm arguments. kcsm will have the right to challenge a negative ruling by the sct before the administrative federal court, and, if necessary, the right to challenge any negative ruling by the administrative federal court before a federal magistrate tribunal. however, if these proceedings are determined adversely to kcsm and sanctions are imposed, kcsm could be subject to fines, and could be subject to possible future revocation of the concession if the sct imposes sanctions on three additional occasions over the remaining term of the concession. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm rail lines. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbances or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be timely made. the company ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on the mexican operations in particular. the national elections held on july 2, 2000, ended 71 years of rule by the institutional revolutionary party and resulted in the increased representation of opposition parties in the mexican congress and in mayoral and gubernatorial positions. national elections were again held on july 2, 2006, which were disputed by the losing presidential candidate and his supporters. although there have not yet been any material adverse repercussions resulting from this political change, multiparty rule is still relatively new in mexico and could result in economic or political conditions that could materially and adversely affect the mexican operations. kcs cannot predict the impact that this new political landscape will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcsm financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. mexican national politicians are currently focused on certain regional political and social tension, and reforms regarding fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security and oil have not been and may not be approved. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition and results of operation. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. however, mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs ability to obtain dollars or to convert pesos into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent kcs may have to effect those conversions, and could adversely affect the mexican economy or the company investment in kcsm. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs business and financial condition. 17 table of contents securities of companies in emerging market countries tend to be influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. some emerging market countries, including argentina and brazil, have experienced significant economic downturns and market volatility in the past. these events have had an adverse effect on the economic conditions and securities markets of other emerging market countries, including mexico. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate would likely have adverse effects on kcs business and results of operations. the level and timing of kcs mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economy or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs business and results of operations. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. any future downturn in the united states economy could have a material adverse effect on kcs results of operations and our ability to meet debt service obligations. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness. severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the u.s. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs securities. currency fluctuations are likely to continue to have an effect on kcs financial condition in future periods. kcsm has identified possible discrepancies in data provided by its prior information system. kcsm installed a new operational information system in 2006. based on testing of the data provided by this system, including a comparison of such data to data provided by kcsm prior information system, it is possible that the data provided by kcsm prior information system may have contained discrepancies. there is uncertainty as to what effect, if any, these discrepancies could have on kcsm financial condition or results of operations, however there can be no assurance that the effect will not be material. mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future which could adversely affect kcs results of operations. mexico has a history of high levels of inflation, and may experience high inflation in the future. during most of the 1980s and during the mid- and late-1990s, mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. the annual rates of inflation for the last five years, as measured by changes in the national consumer price 18 table of contents index, as provided by banco de mexico, were 4.0% in 2006, 3.3% in 2005, 5.2% in 2004, 4.0% in 2003 and 5.7% in 2002. a substantial increase in the mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of kcsm costs, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. high levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between mexico and the united states, and other countries, which could adversely affect kcsm results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures concerning market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks, but these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness totaled $381.6 million and $440.9 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. two credit agreements, each comprised of a revolving credit facility and a term loan facility, contain variable rate debt which accrues interest based on target interest indexes (london interbank offered rate libor or an alternative base rate) plus an applicable spread, as set forth in each credit agreement. given the balance of $381.6 million of variable rate debt at december 31, 2006, kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of $3.8 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2006. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of the long-term debt was approximately $1,814.1 million at december 31, 2006, and $1,938.6 million at december 31, 2005. commodity price sensitivity. as described in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other derivative instruments of this form 10-k, kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2006, kcs was party to fuel swap agreements for 1.3 million gallons. subsequent to december 31, 2006, kcs entered into fuel swap agreements for another 1.3 million gallons. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs overall financial position. with the exception of the fuel currently hedged under fuel swap transactions for 2007, fuel costs are expected to mirror market conditions in 2007. kcs also cushions the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers. assuming annual consumption of 145 million gallons, a $0.10 change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $14.5 million change in operating expenses. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcsm uses the dollar as its functional currency. earnings from kcsm included in the company results of operations reflect revaluation gains and losses that kcsm records in the process of translating certain transactions from pesos to dollars. therefore, the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the peso. while not currently utilizing foreign currency instruments to hedge kcs 53 table of contents dollar investment in kcsm, existing alternatives are evaluated as market conditions and exchange rates fluctuate. for example, a hypothetical 10% increase in the us dollar to the mexican peso exchange rate on net monetary assets of ps.1,652.6 million would result in a translation loss of approximately $13.9 million and a 10% decrease in the exchange rate would result in a translation gain of approximately $17.0 million. inflation. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require the use of historical cost, which does not reflect the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property. due to the capital intensive nature of kcs business, the replacement cost of these assets would be substantially greater than the amounts reported under the historical cost basis. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 6 risk factors risks related to an investment in kcs common stock the price of kcs common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they want to or at prices they find attractive. the price of kcs common stock on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), listed under the ticker symbol ksu , constantly changes. the company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate. the company stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond kcs control. these factors include, but are not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; developments generally affecting the railroad industry; announcements by kcs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings against kcs; kcs dividend policy and restrictions on the payment of dividends; future sales of kcs equity or equity-linked securities; the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock; and general domestic and international economic conditions. 6 table of contents in addition, from time to time the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of kcs common stock. kcs ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock is currently restricted, and kcs does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. kcs has agreed, and may agree in the future, to restrictions on its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. in addition, to maintain its credit ratings, the company may be limited in its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock so that it can maintain an appropriate level of debt. during the first quarter of 2000, the board of directors suspended common stock dividends. kcs does not anticipate making any cash dividend payments to its common stockholders for the foreseeable future. holders of the series c preferred stock and series d preferred stock may have special voting rights if kcs fails to pay dividends on that preferred stock over a stated number of quarters. because of certain restrictions in the indentures governing notes issued by kcsr, kcs did not pay dividends on its series c preferred stock or series d preferred stock commencing on may 15, 2006, for the first quarter of 2006, until those dividend arrearages were made up in february 2007. if dividends on the series c preferred stock or series d preferred stock are in arrears for six consecutive quarters (or an equivalent number of days in the aggregate, whether or not consecutive) holders of the series c preferred stock or series d preferred stock, as applicable, will be entitled to elect two of the authorized number of directors at the next annual stockholders meeting at which directors are elected and at each subsequent stockholders meeting until such time as all accumulated dividends are paid on the series c preferred stock or series d preferred stock, as applicable, or set aside for payment. in addition, kcs will not be eligible to register future offerings of securities on form s-3 or to avail itself of the other benefits available to companies that qualify as well-known seasoned issuers under sec rules if kcs fails to pay dividends on its preferred stock. if that happens it could adversely affect kcs ability to access capital markets, and increase the cost of accessing capital markets, until the company again qualifies as a well-known seasoned issuer. sales of substantial amounts of kcs common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. as of december 31, 2007, there were 10,284,625 shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991 amended and restated stock option and performance award plan and the employee stock purchase plan, 2,087,602 shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors outside those plans, and 20,389,113 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock. sales of common stock by employees upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and directors subject to compliance with rule 144 under the securities act, and sales of common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of kcs common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter, bylaws and rights agreement that could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a controlling interest in kcs and that could deprive an investor of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of kcs common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties. these provisions may deprive kcs stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. for example, the restated certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors. it further provides that the vote of 70% of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors is required to amend the restated certificate of incorporation to increase the number of directors to more than eighteen, abolish cumulative voting for directors and abolish the classification of the board. the same vote requirement is imposed by the restated certificate of incorporation on certain transactions involving mergers, consolidations, sales or leases of assets with or to certain owners of more than 5% of kcs outstanding stock entitled to vote in the election of directors. the bylaws provide that a stockholder must give 7 table of contents the company advance written notice of its intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual meeting. in addition, the company has adopted a rights agreement which under certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to acquire control of kcs without prior approval of the board of directors. risks related to kcs business kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, in particular the union pacific railroad company ( up ) and bnsf railway company ( bnsf ) in the united states and ferromex in mexico. many of kcs rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs. in addition, the company is subject to competition from truck carriers and from barge lines and other maritime shipping. increased competition could result in downward pressure on freight rates. competition with other railroads and other modes of transportation is generally based on the rates charged, the quality and reliability of the service provided and the quality of the carrier equipment for certain commodities. while kcs must build or acquire and maintain its infrastructure, truck carriers, maritime shippers and barges are able to use public rights-of-way. the trucking industry provides rate and service competition to the railroad industry. trucking requires substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allows for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. a central part of kcs growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will have the ability to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general, and the mexican operations in particular, are unable to preserve their competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, projected revenue growth from the mexican operations could be adversely affected. additionally, the revenue growth attributable to the mexican operations could be affected by, among other factors, kcs inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) called for mexican trucks to have unrestricted access to highways in united states border states by 1995 and full access to all united states highways by january 2000. however, the united states did not follow that timetable because of concerns over mexico trucking safety standards. in february 2001, a nafta tribunal ruled in arbitration between the united states and mexico that the united states must allow mexican trucks to cross the border and operate on united states highways. on march 14, 2002, as part of its agreement under nafta, the u.s. department of transportation issued safety rules that allow mexican truckers to apply for operating authority to transport goods beyond the 20-mile commercial zones along the united states-mexico border. these safety rules require mexican motor carriers seeking to operate in the united states to, among other things, pass safety inspections, obtain valid insurance with a united states registered insurance company, conduct alcohol and drug testing for drivers and obtain a u.s. department of transportation identification number. under the rules issued by the u.s. department of transportation, it was expected that the border would have been opened to mexican motor carriers in 2002. however, in january 2003, in response to a lawsuit filed in may 2002 by a coalition of environmental, consumer and labor groups, the u.s. court of appeals for the ninth circuit issued a ruling which held that the rules issued by the u.s. department of transportation violated federal environmental laws because the department of transportation failed to adequately review the impact on united states air quality of rules allowing mexican carriers to transport beyond the 20-mile commercial zones along the united states-mexico border. the court of appeals ruling required the department of transportation to provide an environmental impact statement on the mexican truck plan and to certify compliance with the united states clean air act. the department of transportation requested the united states supreme court to review the court of appeals 8 table of contents ruling and, on december 15, 2003, the supreme court granted the department of transportation request. on june 7, 2004, the supreme court unanimously overturned the court of appeals ruling. the department of transportation is in the midst of a pilot program which commenced in early 2007 granting a limited number of mexican trucking companies the right to operate on international movements between the united states and mexico and to pick up or deliver outside of the border commercial zone. there can be no assurance that truck transport between mexico and the united states will not increase substantially in the future. any such increase in truck traffic could affect kcs ability to continue converting traffic to rail from truck transport because it may result in an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by mexican carriers. through kcsm concession from the mexican government, the company has the right to control and operate the southern half of the rail-bridge at laredo, texas. under the concession, kcsm must grant to ferromex the right to operate over a north-south portion of kcsm rail lines between ramos arizpe near monterrey and the city of queretaro that constitutes over 600 kilometers (360 miles) of kcsm main track. using these trackage rights, ferromex may be able to compete with kcsm over kcsm rail lines for traffic between mexico city and the united states. the concession also requires kcsm to grant rights to use certain portions of its tracks to ferrosur and the belt railroad operated in the greater mexico city area by ftvm, thereby providing ferrosur with more efficient access to certain mexico city industries. as a result of having to grant trackage rights to other railroads, kcsm loses the capacity of using a portion of its tracks at all times. ferromex, the operator of the largest railway system in mexico, is in close proximity to kcsm rail lines. kcsm has experienced and continues to experience competition from ferromex with respect to the transport of a variety of products. the rail lines operated by ferromex run from guadalajara and mexico city to four united states border crossings west of the nuevo laredo-laredo crossing, providing an alternative to kcsm routes for the transport of freight from those cities to the united states border. in addition, ferromex directly competes with kcsm in some areas of its service territory, including tampico, saltillo, monterrey, and mexico city. ferrosur competes directly with kcsm for traffic to and from southeastern mexico. ferrosur, like kcsm, also services mexico city and puebla. in november 2005, grupo m xico, the controlling shareholder of ferromex, acquired all of the shares of ferrosur. the common control of ferromex and ferrosur would give grupo m xico control over a nationwide railway system in mexico and ownership of 50% of the shares of ftvm. the merger between ferromex and ferrosur has been declared illegal by the mexican antitrust commission. both ferromex and ferrosur have challenged this ruling. there can be no assurance as to whether grupo m xico will be successful in challenging this ruling. if grupo m xico is successful in its appeal, kcsm competitive position may be materially harmed. on august 3, 2006, cofeco announced an investigation into possible antitrust practices in the provision of rail cargo services. the targets of that investigation have not been identified, and while kcsm may be required to provide information in connection with the investigation, the company does not believe kcsm operations are the subject of the inquiry, however there can be no assurance kcsm is not or will not become a subject of the inquiry. rate reductions by competitors could make kcs freight services less competitive and kcs cannot assure that it would always be able to match these rate reductions. in recent years, kcs has experienced aggressive price competition from ferromex in freight rates for agriculture products, which has adversely affected results of operations. kcs ability to respond to competitive pressures by decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operation and financial condition. in recent years, there has also been significant consolidation among major north american rail carriers. the resulting merged railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have been historically available. there 9 table of contents can be no assurance that further consolidation in the railroad industry, whether in the united states or mexico, will not have an adverse effect on operations. kcs business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances. kcs operations are dependent on interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs business, financial condition and results of operations. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial health and efficient performance of other railroads. for example, some of kcsr traffic moves over the up lines via trackage rights, a significant portion of kcsr grain shipments originate with another rail carrier pursuant to marketing agreements with that carrier, and bnsf is kcs largest partner in the interchange of rail traffic. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. pursuant to the concession, kcsm is required to grant rights to ferromex, ferrosur, and ftvm to use portions of kcsm tracks. applicable law stipulates that ferromex, ferrosur and ftvm are required to grant to kcsm rights to use portions of their tracks. kcsm concession classifies trackage rights as short trackage rights and long-distance trackage rights. although all of these trackage rights have been granted under the concession, no railroad has actually operated under the long-distance trackage rights because the means of setting rates for usage and often related terms of usage have not been agreed upon. under the mexican railroad services law and regulations, the rates kcsm may charge for the right to use its tracks must be agreed upon in writing between kcsm and the party to which those rights are granted. however, if kcsm cannot reach an agreement on rates with rail carriers entitled to trackage rights on kcsm rail lines, the sct is entitled to set the rates in accordance with mexican law and regulation, which rates may not adequately compensate kcsm. kcsm has not been able to reach an agreement with ferromex regarding the rates to be charged for trackage rights, interline services and haulage rights. kcsm and ferromex are involved in judicial, civil and commercial litigation and administrative proceedings over the amounts payable to each other for interline services, haulage and trackage rights. some of those disputes continue under litigation and therefore are pending final resolution. any resolution of such procedures adverse to kcsm could have a negative impact on its business and operations. in march 2002, the sct issued a ruling setting the rates for trackage and haulage rights. in august 2002, the sct issued a ruling setting the rates for interline and terminal services. kcsm and ferromex appealed both rulings. following trial and appellate court decisions, the mexican supreme court in february 2006, in a ruling from the bench, sustained kcsm appeal of the sct trackage and haulage rights ruling, vacating the sct ruling and ordering the sct to issue a new ruling consistent with the court decision. kcsm has not yet received the written opinion of the mexican supreme court decision, nor has the mexican supreme court decided the interline and terminal services appeal. in october 2006, kcsm was served with a claim by ferromex, in which ferromex asked for information concerning the interline traffic between kcsm and ferromex, from january 2002 to december 2004. the 29th civil court issued an order directing kcsm to allow ferromex to review certain account logs. kcsm appealed such order to the 1st civil district court and is awaiting a decision. kcsm expects this litigation to continue over the next few years. the company believes that, based on its assessment of the facts in this case, there will be no material impact to the consolidated financial statements. kcsm and ferromex are parties to various civil cases involving disputes over the application and proper interpretation of the mandatory trackage rights. in august 2002, the sct issued rulings determining ferromex trackage rights in monterrey, nuevo le n. kcsm and ferromex both appealed the sct rulings. at the mexican administrative federal court level, kcsm obtained what it believed were favorable rulings in april 2005. ferromex appealed these rulings and the case was returned to the mexican administrative federal court. the mexican administrative federal court issued a ruling on june 11, 2007, which was served on 10 table of contents kcsm on august 8, 2007. in the ruling, the mexican administrative federal court reversed the earlier favorable ruling and decided that ferromex could use certain auxiliary tracks awarded to kcsm in its concession. kcsm appealed this ruling at the beginning of september 2007, arguing that the mexican administrative federal court wrongly failed to consider the earlier favorable decision in making its revised ruling and also failed to consider the length and limits of the trackage rights included in kcsm concession title. the company believes that based on its assessment of the facts in this case, there will be no material impact to the consolidated financial statements. kcs debt capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total debt plus equity) is 50.4%. kcs leverage could adversely affect its ability to fulfill obligations under various debt instruments and operate its business. kcs level of debt could make it more difficult for it to borrow money in the future, may reduce the amount of money available to finance operations and other business activities, exposes the company to the risk of increased interest rates, makes it more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions, and could reduce flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions. kcs failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in its debt instruments, which, among other things, require kcs to maintain specified financial ratios and limit its ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on the company business or prospects. if the company does not have enough cash to service its debt, meet other obligations and fund other liquidity needs, kcs may be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from lenders, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. kcs cannot assure that any of these remedies can be affected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict the company from adopting some of these alternatives. the indebtedness of kcsm exposes it to risks of exchange rate fluctuations because any devaluation of the peso would cause the cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase and could place the company at a competitive disadvantage in mexico, compared to mexican competitors that have less debt and greater operating and financing flexibility than kcsm does. kcs business is capital intensive. the company business is capital intensive and requires substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things, additions and improvements to roadway, structures and technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of equipment and the rail system. kcs failure to make necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could impair its ability to serve existing customers or accommodate increases in traffic volumes. kcs has funded, and expects to continue to fund, capital expenditures with funds from operating cash flows, equipment leases, debt financing and, to a lesser extent, vendor financing. kcs may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure requirements. even if financing is available, it may not be obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to kcs debt. kcsm concession from the mexican government requires kcsm to make investments and undertake capital projects. if kcsm fails to make such capital investments, kcsm business plan commitments with the mexican government may be at risk, requiring kcsm to seek waivers of its business plan. there is no assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by the sct. kcsm may defer capital expenditures under its business plan with the permission of the sct. however, the sct might not grant this permission, and any failure by kcsm to comply with the capital investment commitments in its business plan could result in sanctions imposed by the sct, and could result in revocation of the concession if sanctions are imposed on five distinct occasions. the company cannot assure that the mexican government would grant any such permission or waiver. if such permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and kcsm is sanctioned, its concession might be at risk of revocation, which would materially adversely affect kcs financial 11 table of contents condition and results of operations. see kcsm mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances below. kcs business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic, weather or other conditions. kcs operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affect the businesses served by kcs. pcrc and panarail are directly affected by the panamanian local economy and trans-pacific trade flows. kcs investments in mexico and panama expose the company to risks associated with operating in mexico and panama, including, among others, cultural differences, varying labor, regulatory and operating practices, political risk and differences between the united states, mexican and panamanian economies. historically, a stronger economy has resulted in improved results for kcs rail transportation operations. conversely, when the economy has slowed, results have been less favorable. if an economic slowdown or recession occurs in key markets, the volume of rail shipments is likely to be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. the company operations may also be affected by natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. the company operates in and along the gulf coast of the united states, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions. for example, hurricanes have adversely affected some of the company shippers located along the gulf coast and caused interruptions in the flow of traffic within the southern united states and between the united states and mexico. as another example, a weak harvest in the midwest may substantially reduce the volume of business handled for agricultural products customers. many of the goods and commodities transported experience cyclical demand. kcs results of operations can be expected to reflect this cyclical demand because of the significant fixed costs inherent in railroad operations. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market segment that may influence operating results. some of kcs customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. for example, global steel and petrochemical prices have decreased in the past. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company financial condition or results. kcs business is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies. kcs failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on its operations. kcs is subject to governmental regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to its railroad operations, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and other matters. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. kcs failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on operations, including limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on its business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect our business. 12 table of contents kcs business is subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations that could require kcs to incur material costs or liabilities relating to environmental, health, or safety compliance or remediation. kcs operations are subject to extensive international, federal, state and local environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters, the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials, the cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases, decommissioning of underground storage tanks and noise pollution. violations of these laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties, permit revocations, facility shutdowns and other civil and criminal sanctions. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, new spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require kcs to incur costs or subject kcs to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in the operation of a railroad, it is possible that derailments, explosions, or other accidents may occur that could cause harm to the environment or to human life or health. as a result, kcs may incur costs in the future, which may be material, to address any such harm, including costs relating to the performance of clean-ups, natural resources damages and compensatory or punitive damages for harm to property or individuals. the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ( cercla or superfund ) and similar state laws (known as superfund laws ) impose liability for the cost of remedial or removal actions, natural resources damages and related costs at certain sites identified as posing a threat to the environment or public health. cercla imposes joint, strict and several liabilities on the owners and operators of facilities in which hazardous waste and other hazardous substances are deposited or from which they are released or are likely to be released into the environment. liability may be imposed, without regard to fault or the legality of the activity, on certain classes of persons, including the current and certain prior owners or operators of a site where hazardous substances have been released and persons that arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances. in addition, other potentially responsible parties, adjacent landowners or other third parties may initiate cost recovery actions or toxic tort litigation against sites subject to cercla or similar state laws. given the nature of its business, kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, including a former foundry site in alexandria, louisiana, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. although the recorded liability is the best estimate of all probable costs, clean-up costs cannot be predicted with absolute certainty, and may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. the mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. the primary environmental law in mexico is the general law of ecological balance and environmental protection (the ecological law ). the mexican federal agency in charge of overseeing compliance with and enforcement of the ecological law is the ministry of environmental protection and natural resources ( semarnat ). the regulations issued under the ecological law and technical environmental requirements issued by semarnat have promulgated standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. as part of its enforcement powers, semarnat is empowered to bring administrative and criminal proceedings and impose economic sanctions against companies that violate environmental laws and temporarily, or even permanently, close non-complying facilities. kcsm is also subject to the laws of 13 table of contents various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm facilities are located. the terms of kcsm concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcsm results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. failure to comply with any such environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. kcsr has been named as a defendant in several putative class action lawsuits that may divert management attention from the company business, cause the company to incur substantial expenses, and in the event of an adverse result expose the company to significant damages and penalties. as described in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, as of december 31, 2007, kcsr has been included along with several other major u.s. railroads in 28 putative class actions alleging that the individual railroads conspired to fix fuel surcharges in violation of u.s. antitrust laws. while the company believes these price fixing allegations have no merit and intends to vigorously defend these claims, no assurance can be given regarding the outcomes of these lawsuits. these and related matters have required, and will continue to require, the company to incur substantial expenses for legal and other professional services. if the company is found liable in these proceedings, it could be required to pay damages (possibly including treble damages) and penalties and might face additional remedies that could harm its financial condition and operating results. kcs business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. any significant increase in the cost of fuel that is not adequately covered by fuel surcharges, or severe disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations and financial condition. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. fuel expense increased from 19% of consolidated operating costs during 2006 to 20% of consolidated operating costs during 2007. kcs has been able to pass the majority of these fuel cost increases on to customers in the form of fuel surcharges applied either in the form of an increase in the freight rate or direct customer billings. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. fuel costs are affected by traffic levels, efficiency of operations and equipment, and petroleum market conditions. the supply and cost of fuel are subject to market conditions and are influenced by numerous factors beyond the company control, including general economic conditions, world markets, government programs and regulations, and competition. in addition, instability in the middle east and interruptions in domestic production and refining due to hurricane damage may result in an increase in fuel prices. fuel prices and supplies could also be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply, any interruptions in refining operations or by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. in the event of a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. kcs currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel requirements for its mexican operations almost exclusively through purchases at market prices from pemex refinanci n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated and kcsm is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. 14 table of contents the loss of key personnel could negatively affect business. kcs success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of the senior management team and the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. recruiting, motivating, and retaining qualified management personnel, particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are vital to operations and success. there is substantial competition for qualified management personnel and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. employment agreements with senior management are terminable at any time by either party. if kcs loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its ability to successfully implement its business plans and the value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected. a majority of kcs employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2007, approximately 80% of kcsr employees and approximately 80% of kcsm employees were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse affect on its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, if other employees were to become unionized, or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. kcs faces possible catastrophic loss and liability and its insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to others. the operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property loss. in the course of kcs operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death, and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. additionally, kcs operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. the occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on kcs operations and financial condition. the company maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business and business interruption due to natural disaster. however, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. this insurance may not be sufficient to cover kcs damages or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, kcs may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have an adverse effect on kcs financial condition. kcs business may be affected by future acts of terrorism or war. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. these acts may also impact the company ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which 15 table of contents could cause significant business interruption and result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the terrorism coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available in the future. kcsm mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the company business and financial condition. kcsm operates under a 50-year concession granted by the mexican government. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct is principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico. the sct has broad powers to monitor kcsm compliance with the concession and it can require kcsm to supply it with any technical, administrative and financial information it requests. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every five years. the sct treats kcsm business plans confidentially. the sct also monitors kcsm compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct reviews, and may amend, these standards every five years. the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide the mexican government certain rights in its relationship with kcsm under the concession, including the right to take over the management of kcsm and its railroad in certain extraordinary cases, such as imminent danger to national security. in the past, the mexican government has used such power with respect to other privatized industries, including the telecommunications industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. in addition, under the concession and the mexican railroad services law and regulations, the sct, in consultation with the mexican antitrust commission, reserves the right to set tariffs if it determines that effective competition does not exist in the mexican railroad industry. the mexican antitrust commission, however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is therefore unclear under what particular circumstances the mexican antitrust commission would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the sct intervenes and sets tariffs, the rates it sets may be too low to allow kcsm to operate profitably. the concession is renewable for up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned on three distinct occasions if kcsm unjustly interrupts the operation of its rail lines or if kcsm charges tariffs higher than the tariffs it has registered with the sct. in addition, the sct may revoke the concession if, among other things, kcsm is sanctioned on five distinct occasions because kcsm restricts the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; kcsm fails to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; kcsm fails to comply with any term or condition of the mexican railroad services law and regulations or the concession; kcsm fails to make the capital investments required under its five-year business plan filed with the sct; or kcsm fails to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican railroad services law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm, without the sct approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm liquidation or bankruptcy. revocation or termination of the concession would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would materially adversely affect the mexican operations and the ability to make payments on kcsm debt. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. in april 2006, the sct initiated a proceeding against kcsm, claiming that kcsm had failed to make certain minimum capital investments projected for 2004 and 2005 under its five-year business plan filed with the sct prior to its acquisition by kcs. kcsm believes it made capital expenditures exceeding the required amounts. kcsm responded to the sct by providing evidence in support of its investments and explaining why it believes sanctions are not appropriate. in may 2007, the company was served with an sct resolution 16 table of contents regarding the sanction proceeding for 2004. in june 2007, kcsm was served with an sct notification that kcsm failed to make minimum capital investments for 2004 and 2005. the sct imposed a fine in the amount of ps.46,800. on august 16, 2007, kcsm filed a nullity claim against the 2004 investment plan resolution issued by the sct, and on august 20, 2007, filed a nullity claim against the 2005 plan resolution, both before the mexican administrative federal court. if necessary, kcsm will have the right to appeal any adverse ruling by the mexican administrative federal court before the mexican federal magistrates tribunal. kcsm believes that even if the threatened sanctions become effective, there will be no material adverse effect on the operations of kcsm. however, if these proceedings are conclusively ruled adversely against kcsm and sanctions are imposed, kcsm could be subject to possible future revocation of its concession if the sct imposes sanctions on five distinct occasions for the same failure over the remaining term of the concession. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, will remain kcsm property. the mexican government will have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government will also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be timely made. kcs ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm mexican operations in particular. the national elections held on july 2, 2000, ended 71 years of rule by the institutional revolutionary party and resulted in the increased representation of opposition parties in the mexican congress and in mayoral and gubernatorial positions. in 2006 the presidential and federal congressional elections in mexico were held and after a close presidential race felipe calder n was elected mexico president. calder n is from the same political party as his predecessor, vicente fox. although there have not yet been any material adverse repercussions resulting from this political change, multiparty rule is still relatively new in mexico and changes in laws, president, public policies and government programs could result in economic or political conditions that could materially and adversely affect the mexican operations. kcs cannot predict the impact that this new political landscape will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcsm financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. mexican national politicians are currently focused on certain regional political and social tension, and reforms regarding fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security, and oil have not been and may not be approved. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition, and results of operation. 17 table of contents the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. however, mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs ability to obtain dollars or to convert pesos into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent kcs may have to effect those conversions, and could adversely affect the mexican economy or the company investment in kcsm. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs business and financial condition. securities of companies in emerging market countries tend to be influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. some emerging market countries, including argentina and brazil, have experienced significant economic downturns and market volatility in the past. these events have had an adverse effect on the economic conditions and securities markets of other emerging market countries, including mexico. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate would likely have adverse effects on kcs business and results of operations. the level and timing of kcs mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economy or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs business results of operations and our ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations at the port of l zaro c rdenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to west coast ports, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through l zaro c rdenas. reduction in trading volumes between kcs and its asian trading partners, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs control, including increased government regulations in light of recent concerns regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs business and results of operations. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness. severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the u.s. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs securities. currency fluctuations are likely to continue to have an effect on kcs financial condition in future periods. 18 table of contents mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future which could adversely affect kcs results of operations. mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may experience high inflation in the future. during most of the 1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. the annual rates of inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in the national consumer price index, as provided by banco de mexico, were 3.8% in 2007, 4.0% in 2006, and 3.3% in 2005. a substantial increase in the mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of kcsm costs, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. high levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between mexico and the united states, and other countries, which could adversely affect kcsm results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures concerning market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks, but these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness totaled $487.1 million and $381.6 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. two credit agreements, each comprised of a revolving credit facility and a term loan facility, contain variable rate debt which accrues interest based on target interest indexes (london interbank offered rate libor or an alternative base rate) plus an applicable spread, as set forth in each credit agreement. given the balance of $487.1 million of variable rate debt at december 31, 2007, kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of $4.9 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2007. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of debt was approximately $1,771.8 million at december 31, 2007 and $1,814.1 million at december 31, 2006, compared with a carrying value of $1,755.9 million and $1,757.0 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. commodity price sensitivity. as described in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other matters derivative instruments of this form 10-k, kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2007, kcs did not have any outstanding fuel swap agreements. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to mirror market conditions in 2008, however, fuel cost are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company control. kcs also cushions the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge 51 table of contents revenues from customers. assuming annual consumption of 140 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $14.0 million change in operating expenses. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcsm uses the dollar as its functional currency. earnings from kcsm included in the company results of operations reflect revaluation gains and losses that kcsm records in the process of translating certain transactions from pesos to dollars. therefore, the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the peso. while not currently utilizing foreign currency instruments to hedge kcs dollar investment in kcsm, existing alternatives are evaluated as market conditions and exchange rates fluctuate. for example, a hypothetical 10% increase in the us dollar to the mexican peso exchange rate on net monetary assets of ps.1,325.7 million would result in a translation loss of approximately $11.1 million and a 10% decrease in the exchange rate would result in a translation gain of approximately $13.5 million. 52risk factors 9 risk factors risks related to an investment in kcs common stock the price of kcs common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they want to or at prices they find attractive. the price of kcs common stock on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), listed under the ticker symbol ksu , constantly changes. the company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate. the company stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond kcs control. these factors include, but are not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; developments generally affecting the railroad industry; announcements by kcs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings against kcs; kcs dividend policy and restrictions on the payment of dividends; future sales of kcs equity or equity-linked securities; the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock; and general domestic and international economic conditions including the availability of short- and long-term financing. in addition, from time to time the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of kcs common stock. kcs ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock is currently restricted, and kcs does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. kcs has agreed, and may agree in the future, to restrictions on its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. in addition, to maintain its credit ratings, the company may be limited in its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock so that it can maintain an appropriate level of debt. during the first quarter of 2000, the board of directors suspended common stock dividends. kcs does not anticipate making any cash dividend payments to its common stockholders in the foreseeable future. holders of the series d preferred stock may have special voting rights if kcs fails to pay dividends on that preferred stock over a stated number of quarters. if dividends on the series d preferred stock are in arrears for six consecutive quarters (or an equivalent number of days in the aggregate, whether or not consecutive), holders of the series d preferred stock will be entitled to elect two of the authorized number of directors at the next annual stockholders meeting at which directors are elected and at each subsequent stockholders meeting until such time as all accumulated dividends are paid on the series d preferred stock or set aside for payment. in addition, so long as dividends on the series d preferred stock remain unpaid and for a period thereafter, kcs will not be eligible to register 9 table of contents future offerings of securities on form s-3 or to avail itself of the other benefits available to companies that qualify as well-known seasoned issuers under sec rules, which could adversely affect kcs ability to access capital markets and increase the cost of accessing capital markets. sales of substantial amounts of kcs common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. as of december 31, 2008, there were 9,306,390 shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991 amended and restated stock option and performance award plan, the 2008 stock option and performance award plan and the employee stock purchase plan, 2,076,919 shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors outside those plans, and 6,999,826 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock. sales of common stock by employees upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and directors subject to compliance with rule 144 under the securities act, and sales of common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of kcs common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter, bylaws and rights agreement that could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a controlling interest in kcs and that could deprive an investor of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of kcs common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties, including provisions providing for a classified board and supermajority stockholder approval requirements in order to increase the size of the board of directors, abolish cumulative voting, abolish the classification of the board, or effect certain merger, consolidation or sale transactions. the bylaws provide that a stockholder must give the company advance written notice of its intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual meeting. in addition, the company has adopted a rights agreement which under certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to acquire control of kcs without prior approval of the board of directors. these provisions may deprive kcs stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. the failure of a bank to fund a request (or any portion of such request) by kcs to borrow money under one of its existing revolving credit facilities could reduce kcs ability to fund capital expenditures or otherwise properly fund its operations. the company subsidiaries have existing revolving credit facilities with several banking institutions. if any of the banking institutions that are a party to such credit facilities fails to fund a request (or any portion of such request) by any such subsidiary to borrow money under one of these existing credit facilities, kcs ability to fund capital expenditures, fund its operations and pay debt service could be reduced, each of which could result in a decline in the value of a stockholder investment in the company. the failure of any bank in which the company deposits funds could reduce the amount of cash the company has available to pay distributions and make additional investments. given the recent developments in the subprime mortgage and other financial markets, financial institutions have additional capital risks. the company has diversified cash and cash equivalents among several banking institutions in an attempt to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. however, the federal deposit insurance corporation, or fdic, only insures amounts up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank. kcs currently has cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of federally insured levels. if any of the banking institutions in which kcs has deposited funds ultimately fails, the company may lose its deposits to the extent they are in excess of $250,000. the loss of the company deposits could reduce the amount of cash the company has available to distribute or invest and could result in a decline in the value of each stockholder investment in the company. 10 table of contents risks related to kcs business kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, particularly the union pacific railroad company ( up ) and bnsf railway company ( bnsf ) in the united states and ferromex in mexico, as well as from truck carriers and from barge lines and other maritime shippers. many of kcs rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs freight services less competitive. kcs ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operation and financial condition. in recent years, there has also been significant consolidation among major north american rail carriers. the resulting merged railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have been historically available. there can be no assurance that further consolidation in the railroad industry, whether in the united states or mexico, will not have an adverse effect on operations. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. a central part of kcs growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will have the ability to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general, and the mexican operations in particular, are unable to preserve their competitive advantages vis- -vis the trucking industry, projected revenue growth from the mexican operations could be adversely affected. additionally, the revenue growth attributable to the mexican operations could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by mexican carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and kcs inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. the company mexican operations are subject to competition from, among others, ferromex and ferrosur. through kcsm concession from the mexican government, kcsm is required to grant certain trackage rights to these railroads, the exercise of which results in the loss to kcsm of the capacity of using a portion of its tracks at all times, and allows the company competitors to compete with kcsm over its rails lines for traffic between mexico city and the united states, as well as gain more efficient access to certain mexico city industries. in particular, the rail lines operated by ferromex are in close proximity to kcsm operations, running from guadalajara and mexico city to four united states border crossings west of the nuevo laredo-laredo crossing, and providing an alternative to kcsm routes for the transport of freight from those cities to the united states border. ferromex additionally directly competes with kcsm in some areas of its service territory, including tampico, saltillo, monterrey, and mexico city. ferrosur competes directly with kcsm for traffic to and from southeastern mexico. ferrosur, like kcsm, also services mexico city and puebla. in november 2005, grupo m xico, the controlling shareholder of ferromex, acquired all of the shares of ferrosur. the merger between ferromex and ferrosur has been declared illegal by the mexican antitrust 11 table of contents commission, a ruling that has been challenged by both ferromex and ferrosur. on january 29, 2009 kcsm received notice of the mexican antitrust commission decision holding that ferromex and ferrosur had engaged in monopolistic practices by combining their operations. under mexican law, ferromex and ferrosur have thirty business days to appeal this decision. if ferromex and ferrosur are successful in this appeal and are permitted to combine their operations, giving grupo m xico control over a nationwide railway system in mexico and ownership of 50% of the shares of ftvm, kcsm competitive position may be materially harmed. kcs business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs business, financial condition and results of operations. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial health and efficient performance of other railroads. for example, some of kcsr traffic moves over the up lines via trackage rights, a significant portion of kcsr grain shipments originate with another rail carrier pursuant to marketing agreements with that carrier, and the up is kcs largest partner in the interchange of total rail traffic. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcsm operations are subject to certain trackage rights, haulage rights and interline service agreements with other mexican rail carriers, some of which are in dispute. through kcsm concession from the mexican government, kcsm is required to grant short and long-distance trackage rights to ferromex, ferrosur, and ftvm. applicable law stipulates that ferromex, ferrosur and ftvm similarly are required to grant to kcsm rights to use portions of their tracks. although all of these trackage rights have been granted under the concession, no railroad has actually operated under the long-distance trackage rights because the rates that may be charged for the right to use the tracks has not been agreed upon between kcsm and the parties to whom those rights are granted in accordance with the mexican railroad services law and applicable regulations. if kcsm cannot reach an agreement on rates with rail carriers entitled to trackage rights on kcsm rail lines, the sct is entitled to set the rates in accordance with mexican law and regulations, which rates may not adequately compensate kcsm. kcsm is currently involved in judicial, civil and commercial litigation and administrative proceedings with ferromex regarding the rates payable to each other for trackage rights, interline services and haulage rights. certain of these disputes continue under litigation, which kcsm expects to continue over the next few years. kcsm and ferromex are also parties to various ongoing civil and administrative cases involving disputes over the application and proper interpretation of the mandatory trackage rights. any resolution of such procedures adverse to kcsm could have a negative impact on its business and operations. kcs debt capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total debt plus equity) is 52.2%. kcs leverage could adversely affect its ability to fulfill obligations under various debt instruments and operate its business. kcs level of debt could make it more difficult for it to borrow money in the future, may reduce the amount of money available to finance operations and other business activities, exposes the company to the risk of increased interest rates, makes it more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions, and could reduce flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions. kcs failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in its debt instruments, which, among other things, require kcs to maintain specified financial ratios and limit its ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on the company business or prospects. if the company does not have enough cash to service its debt, 12 table of contents meet other obligations and fund other liquidity needs, kcs may be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from lenders, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. kcs cannot assure that any of these remedies can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict the company from adopting some of these alternatives. the indebtedness of kcsm exposes it to risks of exchange rate fluctuations because any devaluation of the peso would cause the cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase and could place the company at a competitive disadvantage in mexico, compared to mexican competitors that have less debt and greater operating and financial flexibility than kcsm does. the recent downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain, each of which may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations and business. recent events in the financial markets have had an adverse impact on the credit markets and, as a result, credit has become more expensive and difficult to obtain. some lenders are imposing more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there may be a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which kcs conducts business. the negative impact of tightening credit markets and the recent adverse changes in the credit markets generally may have a material adverse effect on kcs business and results of operations resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to finance capital expansion on favorable terms, if at all, increased financing costs or financial terms with increasingly restrictive covenants. kcs business is capital intensive. the company business is capital intensive and requires substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things, additions and improvements to roadway, structures and technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of equipment and the rail system. kcs failure to make necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could impair its ability to serve existing customers or accommodate increases in traffic volumes. kcs has funded, and expects to continue to fund capital expenditures with funds from operating cash flows, equipment leases, and debt financing. kcs may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure requirements. even if financing is available, it may not be obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to kcs existing debt. in light of current economic conditions, kcs has taken measures to reduce planned capital spending and other expenditures in 2009, and may make further reductions to its 2009 capital spending plan to achieve positive free cash flow if economic conditions do not improve. kcsm concession from the mexican government requires kcsm to make investments and undertake capital projects. if kcsm fails to make such capital investments, kcsm business plan commitments with the mexican government may be at risk, requiring kcsm to seek waivers of its business plan. there is no assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by the sct. kcsm may defer capital expenditures under its business plan with the permission of the sct. however, the sct might not grant this permission, and any failure by kcsm to comply with the capital investment commitments in its business plan could result in sanctions imposed by the sct, and could result in revocation of the concession if sanctions are imposed on five distinct occasions. the company cannot assure that the mexican government would grant any such permission or waiver. if such permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and kcsm is sanctioned, its concession might be at risk of revocation, which would materially adversely affect kcs financial condition and results of operations. see kcsm mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances below. kcs business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic, weather or other conditions. kcs operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness 13 table of contents of the united states and mexican economies affect the businesses served by kcs. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in particular, kcs financial performance depends, in part, on conditions in the automotive industry. automobile manufacturers are among kcsm most significant customers, together representing approximately 12% of its total revenues in 2008. automobile manufacturers have experienced declining market shares in north america and have announced significant restructuring actions in an effort to improve profitability including temporarily stopping production in december 2008 and early 2009. if kcs automobile manufacturing customers cannot fund their operations, or if other major customers reach a similar level of financial distress, kcs may incur significant write offs of accounts receivable or incur impairment charges. in addition, cost-cutting initiatives adopted by automotive customers may result in increased downward pressure on the rates that kcs may charge. pricing pressures may further intensify as automobile manufacturers continue to pursue restructuring and cost-cutting initiatives. kcsm automotive revenues decreased by approximately 4% for the year ended december 31, 2008 and decreased by approximately 31% for the three months ended december 31, 2008 compared to the same periods in 2007. a prolonged downturn in the north american automotive industry resulting in decreased demand or reduced rates for the transport of automotive products could have a negative impact on kcs business, financial condition and operating results. pcrc is directly affected by the world economy and trans-pacific trade flows. in addition, kcs investments in mexico and panama expose the company to risks associated with operating in mexico and panama, including, among others, cultural differences, varying labor, regulatory and operating practices, political risk and differences between the united states, mexican and panamanian economies. historically, a stronger economy has resulted in improved results for kcs rail transportation operations. conversely, when the economy has slowed, results have been less favorable. if an economic slowdown or recession occurs in key markets, the volume of rail shipments is likely to be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs business and financial condition. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market segment that may influence operating results. some of kcs customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. for example, global steel and petrochemical prices have decreased in the past, and reduced demand for automotive vehicles and related shipments may result in decreased prices. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company financial condition or results. the company operations may also be affected by natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. the company operates in and along the gulf coast of the united states, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions that adversely affect kcs shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. many of the goods and commodities transported by kcs experience cyclical demand. kcs results of operations can be expected to reflect this cyclical demand because of the significant fixed costs inherent in railroad operations. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. kcs is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect kcs business. kcs business is subject to credit risk. there is a risk that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. customers and counterparties that owe the company money may default on their 14 table of contents obligations to the company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. although the company has procedures for reviewing its receivables and credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. some of the company risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by the company. that information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, concerns about, or a default by, one customer or counterparty could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other customers or counterparties, which in turn could adversely affect the company. the company may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by its customers and counterparties. kcs business is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations that could require kcs to incur material costs or liabilities relating to environmental, health, or safety compliance or remediation. kcs failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on its operations. kcs is subject to governmental regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to its railroad operations, including the department of transportation and the department of homeland security in the united states and the secretary of communications and transportation in mexico, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and other matters. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, railroad carriers must implement positive train control (a collision avoidance technology that can override locomotive controls and stop a train before an accident) at certain locations (including wherever toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard movements occur or where passenger operations occur) by the end of 2015, which could add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to invest significant amounts of money into new safety technology. kcs failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and operations, including limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on its business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs business. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. although the recorded liability is the best estimate of all probable costs, clean-up costs cannot be predicted with absolute certainty, and may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, accidental spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require kcs to incur costs or subject kcs to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 15 table of contents the company mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm facilities are located. the terms of kcsm concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcsm results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. kcs, as a common carrier by rail, is required by united states and mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and mexican applicable laws, kcs common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or tih) materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. kcs business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. any significant increase in the cost of fuel that is not adequately covered by fuel surcharges, or severe disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations and financial condition. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. fuel expense increased from 20% of consolidated operating costs during 2007 to 22% of consolidated operating costs during 2008. kcs has been able to pass the majority of these fuel cost increases on to customers in the form of fuel surcharges applied either in the form of an increase in the freight rate or direct customer billings. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. kcs currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel requirements for its mexican operations almost exclusively through purchases at market prices from pemex refinanci n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated and kcsm is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. market fluctuations could adversely impact kcs operating results as it hedges certain transactions. from time to time, kcs may use various financial instruments to reduce its exposure to various market risks including interest rates and fuel prices. while these financial instruments reduce our exposure to changes in market risks, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit the company ability to benefit from lower fuel prices or interest rates due to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement. 16 table of contents the loss of key personnel could negatively affect business. kcs success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of the senior management team and the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. recruiting, motivating, and retaining qualified management personnel, particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are vital to operations and success. there is substantial competition for qualified management personnel and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. employment agreements with senior management are terminable at any time by either party. if kcs loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its ability to successfully implement its business plans and the value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected. a majority of kcs employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2008, approximately 80% of kcsr and kcsm employees were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, if other employees were to become unionized, or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. kcs faces possible catastrophic loss and liability and its insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to others. the operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property loss. in the course of kcs operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death, and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. additionally, kcs operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. the occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on kcs operations and financial condition. the company maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business and business interruption due to natural disaster. however, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. this insurance may not be sufficient to cover kcs damages or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. in addition, kcs is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, kcs may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have an adverse effect on kcs financial condition. kcs business may be affected by future acts of terrorism or war. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. these acts may also impact the company ability to raise capital or its future business 17 table of contents opportunities. kcs rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the terrorism coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available in the future. kcsm mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the company business and financial condition. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government, which is renewable for up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct, which is principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, has broad powers to monitor kcsm compliance with the concession and it can require kcsm to supply it with any technical, administrative and financial information it requests. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every five years. the sct treats kcsm business plans confidentially. the sct also monitors kcsm compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct reviews, and may amend, these standards every five years. the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide the mexican government certain rights in its relationship with kcsm under the concession, including the right to take over the management of kcsm and its railroad in certain extraordinary cases, such as imminent danger to national security. in the past, the mexican government has used such power with respect to other privatized industries, including the telecommunications industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. in addition, under article 47 of the mexican railroad services law and its regulations, the sct, in consultation with the mexican antitrust commission, reserves the right to set service rates if it determines that effective competition does not exist in the mexican railroad industry. the mexican antitrust commission, however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is therefore unclear under what particular circumstances the mexican antitrust commission would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the sct intervenes and sets service rates, the rates it sets may be too low to allow kcsm to operate profitably. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, will remain kcsm property. the mexican government will have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government will also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be timely made. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned on three distinct occasions for unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging tariffs higher than the tariffs it has registered with the sct. in addition, the sct may revoke the concession if, among other things, kcsm is sanctioned on five 18 table of contents distinct occasions because kcsm restricts the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; kcsm fails to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; kcsm fails to comply with any term or condition of the mexican railroad services law and regulations or the concession; kcsm fails to make the capital investments required under its five-year business plan filed with the sct; or kcsm fails to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican railroad services law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm, without the sct approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm liquidation or bankruptcy. revocation or termination of the concession would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would materially adversely affect the mexican operations and the ability to make payments on kcsm debt. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. in april 2006, the sct initiated proceedings against kcsm, claiming that kcsm had failed to make certain minimum capital investments projected for 2004 and 2005 under its five-year business plan filed with the sct prior to its april 2005 acquisition by kcs (collectively, the capital investment proceedings ). kcsm believes it made capital expenditures exceeding the required amounts. kcsm responded to the sct by providing evidence in support of its investments and explaining why it believes sanctions are not appropriate. in may 2007, kcsm was served with an sct resolution regarding the capital investment proceeding for 2004, in which the sct determined that kcsm had indeed failed to make the minimum capital investments required for such year, but imposed no sanction as such failure was kcsm first breach of the relevant legal provisions. in june 2007, kcsm was served with an sct resolution regarding the capital investment proceeding for 2005, in which the sct determined that kcsm had indeed failed to make the minimum capital investments required for such year, and imposed a fine in the amount of ps.46,800. kcsm has filed actions before the mexican administrative federal court challenging both the 2004 and 2005 investment plan resolutions issued by the sct, and will have the right to challenge any adverse ruling. kcsm believes that even if sanctions are ultimately imposed as a consequence of the capital investment proceedings, there will be no material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. however, each of these potential sanctions is considered a generic sanction under mexican law (i.e., sanctions applied to conduct not specifically referred to in specific subsections of the mexican railway law). if these potential sanctions are conclusively ruled adversely against kcsm and sanctions are imposed, and if the sct imposes other sanctions related to kcsm capital investments or other generic sanctions on three additional occasions over the remaining term of the concession, kcsm could be subject to possible future sct action seeking revocation of its concession. such revocation would materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of kcsm. kcs ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm mexican operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including the recently implemented multiparty rule, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcsm financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. kcsm uses the u.s. dollar as its functional currency and remeasures its monetary assets and liabilities denominated in mexican pesos into its functional currency. in 2008, the mexican peso declined by about 24%, to ps.13.5 at december 31, 2008 compared to ps.10.9 at december 31, 2007. the decrease in the peso accounted for the $21.0 million foreign currency loss on the company results of operations for the year 19 table of contents ended december 31, 2008. further weakening of the peso could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition, and results of operation. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs ability to obtain dollars or to convert pesos into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent kcs may have to effect those conversions, and could adversely affect the company investment in kcsm. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs business and financial condition. mexican national politicians are currently focused on certain regional, political and social tensions, and reforms regarding fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security, and oil have not been and may not be approved. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition, and results of operation. securities of companies in emerging market countries tend to be influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. some emerging market countries, including argentina and brazil, have experienced significant economic downturns and market volatility in the past. these events have had an adverse effect on the economic conditions and securities markets of other emerging market countries, including mexico. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate would likely have adverse effects on kcs business and results of operations. the level and timing of kcs mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economy or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs business results of operations and the company ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations at the port of l zaro c rdenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through l zaro c rdenas. reduction in trading volumes between kcs and its asian customers, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs control, including increased government regulations in light of recent concerns regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs business and results of operations. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. during the fourth quarter of 2008, the value of the mexican peso declined significantly against the u.s. dollar. see kcs ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks above. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness. severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and 20 table of contents principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the u.s. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs securities. currency fluctuations are likely to continue to have an effect on kcs financial condition in future periods. mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future which could adversely affect kcs results of operations. mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may experience high inflation in the future. during most of the 1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. the annual rates of inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in the national consumer price index, as provided by banco de mexico, were 6.5% in 2008, 3.8% in 2007 and 4.0% in 2006. a substantial increase in the mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of kcsm costs, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. high levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between mexico and the united states, and other countries, which could adversely affect kcsm results of operations. risk factors relating to ongoing litigation kcs is party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions arising in the ordinary course of business including those specifically mentioned below: kcsr may be renamed as a defendant in a putative class action lawsuit that may divert management attention from the company business, cause the company to incur substantial expenses, and in the event of an adverse result expose the company to significant damages and penalties. as described in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, kcsr was included along with several other major u.s. railroads in 29 putative class actions alleging that the individual railroads conspired to fix fuel surcharges in violation of u.s. antitrust laws. on november 27, 2007, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation ordered that these putative class action cases be consolidated for pretrial handling before the united states district court for the district of columbia, where the matters remain pending (the multidistrict litigation ). all of the plaintiffs in the multidistrict litigation filed a consolidated amended complaint on april 15, 2008. kcsr was not named as a defendant in that consolidated amended complaint pursuant to an agreement with the multidistrict litigation plaintiffs to toll the statute of limitations, and the multidistrict litigation does not include kcsr as a party. if kcsr is renamed as defendant to this litigation, kcsr intends to vigorously defend these claims. while the company believes these price fixing allegations have no merit, no assurance can be given regarding the outcomes of these lawsuits. these and related matters have required, and will continue to require, the company to incur substantial expenses for legal and other professional services. if kcsr is renamed as a party to this litigation and found liable in these proceedings, it could be required to pay damages (possibly including treble damages) and penalties and might face additional remedies that could harm its financial condition and operating results. kcsm is involved in several disputes related to providing service to a mexican subsidiary of a large u.s. auto manufacturer, which if adversely resolved could have a negative impact on its business and operations. in march 2008, a mexican subsidiary of a large u.s. auto manufacturer (the auto manufacturer ) filed an arbitration suit against kcsm under a contract entered into in 1999 for services to the auto manufacturer plants in mexico, which, as amended, had a stated termination date of january 31, 2008. the auto 21 table of contents manufacturer claims that the contract was implicitly extended and continued in effect beyond its stated termination date, and that kcsm is therefore required to continue abiding by its terms including but not limited to, the rates contemplated in such contract. kcsm claims that the contract did in fact expire on its stated termination date of january 31, 2008, and that services rendered thereafter are thus subject to the general terms and conditions (including rates) applicable in the absence of a specific contract, pursuant to mexican law. accordingly, kcsm filed a counterclaim against the auto manufacturer to, among other things, recover the applicable rate difference. the auto manufacturer is also seeking a declaration by the arbitrator that the rates being assessed by kcsm are discriminatory, even though the rates being charged are within the legal rate limits set by mexican law for such freight transportation. kcsm believes that the facts of this dispute provide it with strong legal arguments and intends to vigorously defend its claims in this proceeding. as a result, management believes the final resolution of these claims will not have any material impact on kcsm results of operations. in may 2008, the sct initiated a proceeding against kcsm, at the auto manufacturer request, alleging that kcsm impermissibly bundled international rail services and engaged in discriminatory pricing practices with respect to rail services provided by kcsm to the auto manufacturer. if the sct were to determine that kcsm did engage in such actions, the sct could impose sanctions on kcsm. on july 23, 2008, the sct delivered notice to kcsm of new proceedings against kcsm, claiming, among other things, that kcsm refused to grant ferromex access to certain trackage over which ferromex alleges it has trackage rights in coahuila on six different occasions and thus denied ferromex the ability to provide service to the auto manufacturer at this location. kcsm does not believe that these sct proceedings will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. however, if kcsm is ultimately sanctioned in connection with the bundling and discriminatory pricing practices alleged by the auto manufacturer, any such sanction would be considered a generic sanction under mexican law (i.e., sanctions applied to conduct not specifically referred to in specific subsections of the mexican railway law). if challenges against any such sanction are conclusively ruled adversely to kcsm and a sanction is effectively imposed, and if the sct imposes other generic sanctions on four additional occasions over the remaining term of the concession, kcsm could be subject to possible future sct action seeking revocation of its concession. likewise, if each of the alleged six refusals to allow ferromex to serve the auto manufacturer in coahuila were to be finally decided to warrant a separate sanction, kcsm could be subject to a future sct action seeking revocation of its concession. revocation of the concession would materially adversely affect kcsm results of operations and financial condition quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures concerning market kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks, but these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness totaled $443.9 million and $487.1 million at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. two credit agreements, each comprised of a revolving credit facility and term loan facilities, contain variable rate debt which accrues interest based on target interest indexes (london interbank offered rate libor or an alternative base rate) plus an applicable spread, as set forth in each credit agreement. the company has an aggregate notional amount of $250.0 million of interest rate hedges at december 31, 2008, which effectively convert interest payments from variable rates to fixed rates. given the balance of $193.9 million at december 31, 2008 of variable rate debt net of interest rate hedges, kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of $1.9 million on an annualized basis for the net floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2008. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of debt was approximately $1,911.5 million and $1,771.8 million at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, compared with a carrying value of $2,086.1 million and $1,755.9 million at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. commodity price sensitivity. as described in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other matters derivative instruments of this form 10-k, kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2008, kcs did not have any outstanding fuel swap agreements. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to mirror market conditions in 2009, however, fuel cost are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company control. kcs also cushions the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers. assuming annual consumption of 130 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $13.0 million change in operating expenses. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcsm uses the dollar as its functional currency. earnings from kcsm included in the company results of operations reflect revaluation gains and losses that kcsm records in the process of translating certain transactions from pesos to dollars. therefore, the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the peso. kcsm evaluates the use of foreign currency instruments to hedge kcs dollar investment in kcsm as market conditions and exchange rates fluctuate. for example, a hypothetical 10% increase in the u.s. dollar to the mexican peso exchange rate on net peso denominated monetary assets of ps.728.1 million would result in a translation loss of approximately $4.9 million and a 10% decrease in the exchange rate would result in a translation gain of approximately $6.0 million. 51quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. generally, these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this form 10-k and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, which are hereby incorporated by reference, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to the company. 58 table of contents interest rate sensitivity the company floating-rate indebtedness totaled $98.5 million and $149.3 million at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the company variable rate debt, comprised of a revolving credit facility and a term loan, accrues interest based on target interest indexes (e.g., london interbank offered rate libor, federal funds rate, etc.) plus an applicable spread, as set forth in the credit agreement. as a result of the 2002 refinancing of $200 million of variable rate debt with the 7 % notes, the company has been able to reduce its sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates compared to previous years. however, given the balance of $98.5 million variable rate debt at december 31, 2003, the company is still sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of approximately $1.0 million on an annualized basis for the floating-rate instruments held by the company as of december 31, 2003. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of the company long-term debt was approximately $558 million at december 31, 2003 and $617 million at december 31, 2002. commodity price sensitivity as described in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other derivative instruments of this form 10-k, the company participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2003, the company was a party to seven fuel swap agreements. based on market prices at december 31, 2003, the company would receive payments from the third party counterparty of approximately $0.9 million on the settlement date of the agreement, representing the excess of the current market price over the agreed upon swap price. if market prices of fuel dropped below the swap price, then kcs would be obligated to pay an amount equal to the difference between the market price and the swap price for each gallon of fuel hedged. at december 31, 2002, the excess of payments to be received or savings to be realized over the market price related to diesel fuel purchase commitments and fuel swap transactions approximated $1.8 million and $0.6 million, respectively. a hypothetical 10% increase in the price of diesel fuel would have resulted in additional fuel expense of approximately $4.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2003. at december 31, 2003, the company held fuel inventories for use in normal operations. these inventories were not material to the company overall financial position. with the exception of the 13% of fuel currently hedged under fuel swap transactions for 2004, fuel costs are expected to mirror market conditions in 2003. foreign exchange sensitivity the company owns a 46.6% interest in grupo tfm, incorporated in mexico. in connection with the company investment in grupo tfm, matters arise with respect to financial accounting and reporting for foreign currency transactions and for translating foreign currency transactions into u.s. dollars. grupo tfm uses the u.s. dollar as its functional currency. equity earnings (losses) from grupo tfm included in the company results of operations reflect the company share of any such translation gains and losses that grupo tfm records in the process of translating certain transactions from mexican pesos to u.s. dollars. therefore, the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the mexican peso. while not currently utilizing foreign currency instruments to hedge the company u.s. dollar investment in grupo tfm, the company continues to evaluate existing alternatives as market conditions and exchange rates fluctuate. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors risks related to an investment in kcs common stock the price of kcs common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock when they want to or at prices they find attractive. the price of kcs common stock on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), listed under the ticker symbol ksu , constantly changes. the company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate. the company stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond kcs control. these factors include, but are not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by management, securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors; developments generally affecting the railroad industry; announcements by kcs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings against kcs; kcs dividend policy and restrictions on the payment of dividends; future sales of kcs equity or equity-linked securities; the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock or convertible debt; and general domestic and international economic conditions including the availability of short- and long-term financing. in addition, from time to time the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of kcs common stock. kcs ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock is currently prohibited and kcs does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its common stock in 2011. kcs has agreed, and may agree in the future, to restrictions on its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. in addition, to maintain its credit ratings, the company may be limited in its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock so that it can maintain an appropriate level of liquidity or debt. during the first quarter of 2000, the board of directors suspended common stock dividends. kcs does not anticipate making any cash dividend payments to its common stockholders in 2011. holders of the series d preferred stock may have special voting rights if kcs fails to pay dividends on that preferred stock over a stated number of quarters. if dividends on the series d preferred stock are in arrears for six consecutive quarters (or an equivalent number of days in the aggregate, whether or not consecutive), holders of the series d preferred stock will be entitled to elect two of the authorized number of directors at the next annual stockholders meeting at which 11 directors are elected and at each subsequent stockholders meeting until such time as all accumulated dividends are paid on the series d preferred stock or set aside for payment. in addition, so long as dividends on the series d preferred stock remain unpaid and for a period thereafter, kcs will not be eligible to register future offerings of securities on form s-3 or to avail itself of the other benefits available to companies that qualify as well-known seasoned issuers under sec rules, which could adversely affect kcs ability to access capital markets and increase the cost of accessing capital markets. sales of substantial amounts of kcs common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. as of december 31, 2010, there were 6,948,200 shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991 amended and restated stock option and performance award plan, the 2008 stock option and performance award plan and the 2009 employee stock purchase plan, 1,706,277 shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors outside those plans, and 6,999,826 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding shares of series d convertible preferred stock. sales of common stock by employees upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and directors subject to compliance with rule 144 under the securities act, and sales of common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of kcs common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a controlling interest in kcs and that could deprive an investor of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of kcs common stock. kcs has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties, including provisions providing for a classified board and supermajority stockholder approval requirements in order to increase the size of the board of directors, abolish cumulative voting, abolish the classification of the board, or effect certain merger, consolidation or sale transactions. the bylaws provide that a stockholder must give the company advance written notice of its intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual meeting. these provisions may deprive kcs stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. the failure of a bank to fund a request (or any portion of such request) by kcs to borrow money under its existing revolving credit facilities could reduce kcs ability to fund capital expenditures or otherwise properly fund its operations. the company and its subsidiaries are in an industry that requires continuing infrastructure improvements and acquisitions of capital assets, necessitating substantial expenditure of cash. kcs has existing revolving credit facilities with multiple banking institutions to provide additional liquidity. if any of the banking institutions that are a party to such credit facilities fails to fund a request (or any portion of such request) by kcs to borrow money under its credit facilities, kcs ability to fund capital expenditures, fund its operations and pay debt service could be reduced, each of which could result in a decline in the value of a stockholder investment in the company. the failure of any bank in which the company deposits funds could reduce the amount of cash the company has available to pay distributions and make additional investments. given the developments in the financial markets, financial institutions have additional capital risks. the company has diversified cash and cash equivalents among several banking institutions in an attempt to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. however, the federal deposit insurance corporation, or fdic, only insures amounts up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank. kcs currently has cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of federally insured levels. if any of the 12 banking institutions in which kcs has deposited funds ultimately fails, the company may lose its deposits to the extent they are in excess of $250,000. the loss of the company deposits could reduce the amount of cash the company has available to distribute or invest and could result in a decline in the value of each stockholder investment in the company. risks related to kcs business kcs competes against other railroads and other transportation providers. the company domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, particularly the union pacific railroad company ( up ) and bnsf railway company ( bnsf ) in the united states and ferromex and ferrosur in mexico, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. many of kcs rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than kcs, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make kcs freight services less competitive. kcs ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. kcs failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operation and financial condition. the railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. these larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads access to efficient gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. in addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the united states or mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on the company operations. trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. a central part of kcs growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. there can be no assurance the company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. if the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis-&agrave;-vis the trucking industry, projected revenue growth could be adversely affected. additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and kcs inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads. kcsm mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the company business and financial condition. kcsm operates under the concession granted by the mexican government, which is renewable for up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. the concession gives kcsm exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for the first 30 years of the 50-year concession, subject to certain 13 trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. the sct, which is principally responsible for regulating railroad services in mexico, has broad powers to monitor kcsm compliance with the concession and it can require kcsm to supply it with any technical, administrative and financial information it requests. among other obligations, kcsm must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the concession, and must update the plan every five years. the sct treats kcsm business plans confidentially. the sct also monitors kcsm compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. the sct reviews, and may amend, these standards every five years. the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide the mexican government certain rights in its relationship with kcsm under the concession, including the right to take over the management of kcsm and its railroad in certain extraordinary cases, such as imminent danger to national security. in the past, the mexican government has used such power with respect to other privatized industries, including the telecommunications industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. in addition, under article 47 of the mexican railroad services law and its regulations, the sct, in consultation with cofeco, reserves the right to set service rates if it determines that effective competition does not exist in the mexican railroad industry. cofeco, however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a lack of competition. it is therefore unclear under what particular circumstances cofeco would deem a lack of competition to exist. if the sct intervenes and sets service rates, the rates it sets may be too low to allow kcsm to operate profitably. under the concession, kcsm has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. if the mexican government legally terminates the concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of kcsm rail lines. all other property not covered by the concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, will remain kcsm property. the mexican government will have the right to cause the company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. the mexican government must exercise this right within four months after revocation of the concession. in addition, the mexican government will also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by kcsm of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the concession. the mexican government may also temporarily seize control of kcsm rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. in such a case, the sct may restrict kcsm ability to exploit the concession in such manner as the sct deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. mexican law requires that the mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. with respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the mexican railroad services law and regulations provide that the mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. however, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate kcsm for its losses and may not be timely made. the sct may revoke the concession if kcsm is sanctioned on three distinct occasions for unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging tariffs higher than the tariffs it has registered with the sct. in addition, the sct may revoke the concession if, among other things, kcsm is sanctioned on five distinct occasions because kcsm restricts the ability of other mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; kcsm fails to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; kcsm fails to comply with any term or condition of the mexican railroad services law and regulations or the concession; kcsm fails to make the capital investments required under its five-year business plan filed with the sct; or kcsm fails to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the mexican railroad services law and regulations. in addition, the concession would revoke automatically if kcsm changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the concession, or if there is a change in control of kcsm without the sct approval. the sct may also terminate the concession as a result of kcsm surrender of its rights under the concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon kcsm liquidation or bankruptcy. revocation or termination of the concession would prevent kcsm from operating its railroad and would materially adversely affect the mexican 14 operations and the ability to make payments on kcsm debt. if the concession is terminated or revoked by the sct for any reason, kcsm would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures covered by the concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the mexican government. in april 2006, the sct initiated proceedings against kcsm, claiming that kcsm had failed to make certain minimum capital investments projected for 2004 and 2005 under its five-year business plan filed with the sct prior to its april 2005 acquisition by kcs (collectively, the capital investment proceedings ). kcsm believes it made capital expenditures exceeding the required amounts. kcsm responded to the sct by providing evidence in support of its investments and explaining why it believes sanctions are not appropriate. in may 2007, kcsm was served with an sct resolution regarding the capital investment proceeding for 2004, in which the sct resolved to impose no sanction. in june 2007, kcsm was served with an sct resolution regarding the capital investment proceeding for 2005, in which the sct determined that kcsm had failed to make the minimum capital investments required for such year, and imposed a minimal fine. kcsm filed an action in the mexican administrative and fiscal federal court challenging this ruling and on december 21, 2010 received a favorable ruling. the sct has the right to challenge this ruling. kcsm believes that even if a sanction is ultimately imposed as a consequence of the 2005 capital investment proceeding, there will be no material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. however, if a sanction were to be imposed, it would be considered a generic sanction under mexican law (i.e., sanctions applied to conduct not specifically referred to in specific subsections of the mexican railway law). if kcsm is ultimately sanctioned by the sct for generic sanctions on five occasions over the term of the concession, kcsm could be subject to possible future sct action seeking revocation of the concession. such revocation would materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of the company. kcs business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties. operation of kcs rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable kcs to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the company does not own. kcs ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties. the termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect kcs business, financial condition and results of operations. kcs is also dependent in part upon the financial health and efficient performance of other railroads. for example, some of kcsr traffic moves over the up lines via trackage rights, a significant portion of kcsr grain shipments originate with another rail carrier pursuant to marketing agreements with that carrier, and the up is kcs largest partner in the interchange of total rail traffic. there can be no assurance that kcs will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads. kcsm operations are subject to certain trackage rights, haulage rights and interline service agreements with another mexican rail carrier, some of which are in dispute. through kcsm concession from the mexican government, kcsm is required to grant short and long distance trackage rights to ferromex. applicable law stipulates that ferromex similarly is required to grant to kcsm rights to use portions of their tracks. these trackage rights have been granted under the concession. the rates to be charged for use of the trackage rights after january 1, 2009 were agreed to by kcs and ferromex pursuant to the trackage rights agreement, dated february 9, 2010. the trackage rights agreement did not establish rates that may be charged for the right to use the trackage rights for the periods beginning in 1998 through december 31, 2008. if kcsm cannot reach an agreement with ferromex for rates applicable for services prior to january 1, 2009 which are not subject to the trackage rights agreement, the sct is entitled to set the rates in accordance with 15 mexican law and regulations, which rates may not adequately compensate kcsm. kcsm is currently involved in judicial, civil and administrative proceedings and negotiations with ferromex regarding the rates payable to each other for trackage rights, interline services and haulage rights for periods prior to january 1, 2009. certain of these disputes continue under litigation. any resolution of such procedures adverse to kcsm could have a negative impact on its results of operations in a particular quarter or fiscal year. kcs debt capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total debt plus equity) was 37.7% at december 31, 2010 . kcs leverage could adversely affect its ability to fulfill obligations under various debt instruments and operate its business. kcs level of debt could make it more difficult for it to borrow money in the future, may reduce the amount of money available to finance operations and other business activities, exposes the company to the risk of increased interest rates, makes it more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions, and could reduce flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions. kcs failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in its debt instruments, which restrict or prohibit many actions, including, but not limited to, kcs ability to incur debt, create or suffer to exist liens, make prepayments of particular debt, pay dividends, make investments, engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates, issue capital stock, sell certain assets, engage in mergers and consolidations or in sale-leaseback transactions and require kcs to maintain specified financial ratios, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on the company business or prospects. if the company does not have enough cash to service its debt, meet other obligations and fund other liquidity needs, kcs may be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from lenders, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. kcs cannot assure that any of these remedies can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict the company from adopting some of these alternatives. the indebtedness of kcsm exposes it to risks of exchange rate fluctuations because any devaluation of the peso would cause the cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase and could place the company at a competitive disadvantage in mexico, compared to mexican competitors that have less dollar-denominated debt and greater operating and financial flexibility than kcsm. a downturn in the debt capital markets may increase the cost of borrowing and make financing difficult to obtain, each of which may have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations and business. events in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on the debt capital markets and, as a result, credit may become more expensive and difficult to obtain. lenders may impose more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there may be a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which kcs conducts business. the negative impact of tightening credit markets and adverse changes in the debt capital markets generally may have a material adverse effect on kcs business and results of operations resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to finance capital expansion on favorable terms, if at all, increased financing costs or financial terms with increasingly restrictive covenants. kcs business is capital intensive. the company business is capital intensive and requires substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things, additions and improvements to roadway, structures and technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of equipment and the rail system. kcs failure to make necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could impair its ability to serve existing customers, accommodate increases in traffic volumes or result in increased derailments. 16 kcsm concession from the mexican government requires kcsm to make investments and undertake capital projects. if kcsm fails to make such capital investments, kcsm business plan commitments with the mexican government may be at risk, requiring kcsm to seek waivers of its business plan. there is no assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by the sct. kcsm may defer capital expenditures under its business plan with the permission of the sct. however, the sct might not grant this permission, and any failure by kcsm to comply with the capital investment commitments in its business plan could result in sanctions imposed by the sct, and could result in revocation of the concession if sanctions are imposed on five distinct occasions. the company cannot assure that the mexican government would grant any such permission or waiver. if such permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and kcsm is sanctioned, its concession might be at risk of revocation, which would materially adversely affect kcs financial condition and results of operations. see kcsm mexican concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances below. kcs has funded, and expects to continue to fund capital expenditures with funds from operating cash flows, equipment leases, and debt financing. kcs may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure requirements. even if financing is available, it may not be obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to kcs existing debt. kcs depends on the stability and availability of its information technology systems to operate its business. kcs relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. a significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software and communications equipment, could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security violations, regulatory compliance failures and the inability to protect corporate information assets against intruders or other operational difficulties. although kcs has taken steps to mitigate these risks, a significant disruption could adversely affect kcs results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and ability to compete effectively. additionally, if kcs is unable to acquire or implement new technology, it may suffer a competitive disadvantage, which could also have an adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. kcs business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic, weather or other conditions. kcs operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that kcs transports. the relative strength or weakness of the united states and mexican economies affects the businesses served by kcs. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect kcs, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that kcs transports and may have a material adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. pcrc is directly affected by the world economy and trans-pacific trade flows. in addition, kcs investments in mexico and panama expose the company to risks associated with operating in mexico and panama, including, among others, cultural differences, varying labor, regulatory and operating practices, political risk and differences between the united states, mexican and panamanian economies. historically, a stronger economy has resulted in improved results for kcs rail transportation operations. conversely, when the economy has slowed, results have been less favorable. if an economic slowdown or recession occurs in key markets, the volume of rail shipments is likely to be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs business and financial condition. the transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. some of kcs customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. any downturn in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. also, some of the products 17 transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. for example, global steel and petrochemical prices have decreased in the past, and reduced demand for automotive vehicles and related shipments may result in decreased prices. kcs cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the company financial condition or results. traffic congestion experienced in the u.s. or mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from mexico and adversely affect kcs operations. this system congestion may also result in certain equipment shortages. any similar congestion experienced by railroads in mexico could have an adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. in addition, the growth of cross-border traffic in recent years has contributed to congestion on the international bridge at the nuevo laredo-laredo border gateway, which is expected to continue in the near future. this may adversely affect kcs business and results of operations. the company operations may also be affected by natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. the company operates in and along the gulf of mexico, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions that could also adversely affect kcs shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. kcs business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to climate change. kcs operations may be adversely affected by restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. restrictions on emissions could also affect kcs customers that use commodities that kcs transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities kcs transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities kcs transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities kcs transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. kcs is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect kcs business. kcs business is subject to credit risk including the risk that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. customers and counterparties that owe the company money may default on their obligations to the company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. although the company has procedures for reviewing its receivables and credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. some of the company risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by the company. that information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, concerns about, or a default by, one customer or counterparty could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other customers or counterparties, which in turn could adversely affect the company. the company may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by its customers and counterparties. 18 kcs business is subject to regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including tax, environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations that could require kcs to incur material costs or liabilities relating to tax, environmental, health, or safety compliance or remediation. kcs failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on its operations. kcs is subject to governmental regulation by international, federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to its railroad operations, including the department of transportation and the department of homeland security in the united states and the secretary of communications and transportation in mexico, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and other matters. government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. as part of the rail safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, class i railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement positive train control (a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned) at certain locations (including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard movements occur or where passenger operations occur) by the end of 2015, which will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the company employs and require kcs to invest significant amounts of money into new safety technology. kcs inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and operations, including limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. these government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the company business that occur as a result of such change. additionally, some of the regulations require kcs to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. any failure to maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect kcs business. kcs is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and mexico. significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, and revisions of tax regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and operating results. although kcs believes the tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits, claims, or litigation could differ from what is reflected in kcs income tax provisions and accruals. from time to time, certain kcs facilities have not been in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. environmental liability under federal and state law in the united states can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the company. environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. given the nature of its business, the company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. kcs presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future. liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the company best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of these sites. although the recorded liability is the best estimate of all probable costs, clean-up costs cannot be predicted with absolute certainty, and may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, accidental spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require kcs to incur costs or subject kcs to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the company mexican operations are subject to mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, 19 emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. under applicable mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. kcsm is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the mexican states in which kcsm facilities are located. the terms of kcsm concession from the mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on kcsm. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on kcsm results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of kcsm concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability. kcs, as a common carrier by rail, is required by united states and mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could expose kcs to significant costs and claims. under united states federal statutes and mexican applicable laws, kcs common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. any rail accident or other incident or accident on kcs network, facilities, or at the facilities of kcs customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or tih) materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation, which could have a material adverse effect on kcs results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. kcs business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies. any significant increase in the cost of fuel that is not adequately covered by fuel surcharges, or severe disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse effect on kcs business, results of operations and financial condition. kcs incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. if kcs is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect kcs operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. kcs currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel requirements for its mexican operations almost exclusively through purchases at market prices from pemex refinanci&oacute;n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel in mexico. kcsm is party to a fuel supply contract with pemex of indefinite duration based on market prices. either party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written notice to the other at any time. if the fuel contract is terminated and kcsm is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources on acceptable terms, the mexican operations could be materially adversely affected. market fluctuations could adversely impact kcs operating results as it hedges certain transactions. from time to time, kcs may use various financial instruments to reduce its exposure to various market risks, including interest rates and fuel prices. while these financial instruments reduce the company exposure to changes in market risks, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit the company ability to benefit from lower fuel prices or interest rates due to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement. the loss of key personnel could negatively affect business. kcs success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of the senior management team and the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. recruiting, motivating, and retaining qualified management personnel, particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are vital to operations and 20 success. there is substantial competition for qualified management personnel and there can be no assurance that kcs will always be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. employment agreements with senior management are terminable at any time by either party. if kcs loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its ability to successfully implement its business plans and the value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected. a majority of kcs employees belong to labor unions. strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations. the company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the united states and mexico. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 80% of kcsr and kcsm employees were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. the company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or kcs potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. in the united states, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond kcs control. kcs may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if the unionized workers in the united states or mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, if other employees were to become unionized, or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, kcs could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. although the u.s. railway labor act imposes restrictions on the right of united states railway workers to strike, there is no law in mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike. kcs faces possible catastrophic loss and liability and its insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to others. the operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property loss. in the course of kcs operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death, and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. additionally, kcs operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. the occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on kcs operations and financial condition. the company maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business, property damage and business interruption due to natural disasters. however, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. this insurance may not be sufficient to cover kcs damages or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. in addition, kcs is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, kcs may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have an adverse effect on kcs financial condition. kcs business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime. terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the company chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect kcs results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. these acts may also impact the company ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. kcs rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to kcs property. in recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in mexico, including incidents involving kcsm trains and infrastructure. other acts of violence or crime could also adversely affect the company business. 21 as a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for kcs. in addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by kcs could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future. kcs ownership of kcsm and operations in mexico subject it to economic and political risks. the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on kcsm operations in particular. kcs cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including the recently implemented multiparty rule, will have on the mexican economy. furthermore, kcsm financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting mexico. the mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. although mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in mexico. pursuant to the provisions of nafta, if mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in mexico, including those made by united states and canadian investors. any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect kcs ability to obtain dollars or to convert pesos into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent kcs may have to effect those conversions, and could adversely affect the company investment in kcsm. this could have a material adverse effect on kcs business and financial condition. mexican national politicians are currently focused on certain regional, political and social tensions, and reforms regarding fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security, and oil have not been and may not be approved. the social and political situation in mexico could adversely affect the mexican economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on kcs business, financial condition, and results of operation. downturns in the united states economy or in trade between the united states and asia or mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate would likely have adverse effects on kcs business and results of operations. the level and timing of kcs mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of united states-mexican trade and the effects of nafta on such trade. the mexican operations depend on the united states and mexican markets for the products kcsm transports, the relative position of mexico and the united states in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. downturns in the united states or mexican economy or in trade between the united states and mexico would likely have adverse effects on kcs business results of operations and the company ability to meet debt service obligations. in addition, kcs has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the port of lazaro cardenas, in part to provide asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the united states, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of asian shipments routed through lazaro cardenas. reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond kcs control, including increased government regulations in light of recent concerns regarding the safety and quality of asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect kcs business and results of operations. also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of mexican imports and exports. although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that kcsm transports to the united states may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities kcsm hauls into mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. future 22 developments in united states-mexican trade beyond the company control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities kcsm carries. any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of kcsm dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness. severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into u.s. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. although the mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into u.s. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of mexico, the mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into u.s. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the u.s. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments. devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the u.s. dollar may also adversely affect u.s. dollar prices for kcs securities. fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on kcs reported operating results. a devaluation of the peso would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and would increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the company net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under mexican income tax law, and an appreciation of the peso would cause an increase in the company reported income tax provision and effective income tax rate. mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future which could adversely affect kcs results of operations. mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may experience high inflation in the future. during most of the 1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. the annual rates of inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in the national consumer price index, as provided by banco de m&eacute;xico, were 4.4% in 2010, 3.6% in 2009 and 6.5% in 2008. a substantial increase in the mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of kcsm costs, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. high levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between mexico and the united states, and other countries, which could adversely affect kcsm results of operations. risk factors relating to ongoing litigation kcs is party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions arising in the ordinary course of business including those specifically mentioned below: kcsm is involved in several disputes with the sct, which if adversely resolved could have a negative impact on its business and operations. on july 23, 2008, the sct delivered notice to kcsm of new proceedings against kcsm, claiming, among other things, that kcsm refused to grant ferromex access to certain trackage over which ferromex alleges it has trackage rights on six different occasions and thus denied ferromex the ability to provide service to a mexican subsidiary of a large u.s. auto manufacturer at this location. on august 13, 2008, kcsm filed a response to the sct. on july 15, 2010, the sct resolved to consolidate these six sanctioning proceedings into a single proceeding, determining that the actions that motivated the underlying claims constitute a single occasion. on august 19, 2010, ferromex filed an appeal which kcsm considers to be without merit. management believes that even if kcsm were to be found liable, a single sanction would be imposed and could be challenged in the administrative and fiscal federal court. a single sanction makes it more likely that any unfavorable resolution will not have a material impact on kcsm results of operations. 23 kcsm believes it has defenses to the imposition of sanctions for the forgoing proceedings and is vigorously contesting these allegations. kcsm does not believe that these sct proceedings will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. however, if kcsm is ultimately sanctioned by the sct for generic sanctions on five occasions over the term of the concession, kcsm could be subject to possible future sct action seeking revocation of the concession. revocation of the concession would materially adversely affect kcsm results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk kcs utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. these instruments have not been entered into for trading purposes. the following information, together with information included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to kcs. interest rate sensitivity. floating-rate indebtedness totaled $307.4 million and $350.6 million at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the company revolving credit facilities and term loan facilities contain variable rate debt that accrues interest based on target interest indexes (london interbank offered rate libor or an alternative base rate) plus an applicable spread. the company has a $75.0 million interest rate swap at december 31, 2010, which effectively converts interest payments from variable rates to fixed rates. the swap expires on march 31, 2011. given the balance of $232.4 million at december 31, 2010 of variable rate debt net of interest rate hedges, kcs is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in each of the respective target interest indexes would result in additional interest expense of $2.3 million on an annualized basis for the net floating-rate instruments issued by the company as of december 31, 2010. based upon the borrowing rates available to kcs and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of debt was approximately $1,739.8 million and $2,031.1 million at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, compared with a carrying value of $1,639.7 million and $1,980.0 million at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. commodity price sensitivity. kcs periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitment and swap transactions. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, kcs did not have any outstanding fuel swap agreements. the company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. these inventories are not material to kcs overall financial position. fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2011, however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the company control. kcs is able to reduce the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers. assuming annual consumption of 120 million gallons, a 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause an $12.0 million change in operating expenses. foreign exchange sensitivity. kcsm uses the dollar as its functional currency. earnings from kcsm included in the company results of operations reflect revaluation gains and losses that kcsm records in the process of remeasuring certain transactions from pesos to dollars. therefore, the company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the peso. kcs manages this risk by monitoring its peso denominated cash inflows and outflows. for example, a hypothetical 10% increase in the u.s. dollar to the mexican peso exchange rate on net peso denominated monetary assets of ps.536.5 million would result in a foreign exchange loss of approximately $3.9 million and a 10% decrease in the exchange rate would result in a foreign exchange gain of approximately $4.8 million. 53