risk factors 10 risk factors. we routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. some of these risks may cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. below are certain important operational and strategic risks that could adversely affect our business. how we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors react to those developments, could also affect our future results. volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits. we use many different raw materials for our business, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. although raw material cost increases moderated in 2013, they remain at elevated levels. historically, we have experienced the greatest amount of price volatility in natural products that represent approximately half of our raw material purchases. availability and pricing of these natural products, such as citrus and vanilla, can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather, alternative land use, and other factors which we cannot control. if we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our fragrance or flavor products to cover raw material and other input cost increases, or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, we could fail to meet our cost expectations and our profits and operating results could be adversely affected. increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in volume, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 10 similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, and other world events. as we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have a long-term impact on our results of operations. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. however, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used for the geographic region in which we will need these materials, our margins could be adversely affected. our international operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position. we operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the united states, europe, africa, the middle east, latin america, and greater asia. during 2013, 78% of our net sales were to customers outside the united states and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors in this section and include the following: governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that may impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates and currency fluctuations; changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, such as the continued implementation of the european union's reach regulations, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with such regulations; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors or fragrances to surrounding markets; our ability to anticipate and adapt our flavors and fragrances to local preferences; risks and costs arising from language and cultural differences; changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, and the costs and ability to repatriate the revenue that we generate in these countries; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained personnel; risks and costs associated with health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic; or the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights. these factors may increase in importance as we expand our operations in emerging markets as part of our growth strategy. 11 we have made investments in and are expanding our business into emerging markets and regions, which exposes us to certain risks. as part of our growth strategy, we have increased our presence in emerging markets, including greater asia, by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets, and we expect to continue to focus on expanding our business in these markets. in addition to the currency and international operation risks described above, our operations in these markets may be subject to a variety of other risks. these risks include economies that include consumers with limited or fluctuating disposable income and discretionary spending on which the end users of our products depend, weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization or other government actions affecting the flow of goods and currency. in conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in customs and tax regimes that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. the increase in demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been driven by factors outside of our control, and if these factors do not persist our future growth could be adversely affected. demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and economic growth, especially in emerging markets. approximately 49% of our sales during 2013 were generated in emerging markets and we expect emerging markets to continue to significantly contribute to our future growth. increasing consumer demand for products using flavors and fragrances is dependent on factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world's population, all of which are outside of our control. changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could materially adversely impact our results of operations. accordingly, our future growth will depend upon the continued economic growth and development of consumer spending on products for which we supply flavors and fragrances in these global markets. the current volatility in the global economy may adversely affect consumer spending and may negatively impact our business and operating results. our flavors and fragrances are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. since mid-2008, the global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. these conditions led to economic contractions in the developed economies and reduced growth rates in the emerging markets. while some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the ongoing fiscal debt crisis in europe and the austerity plans being adopted in many countries have, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase energy prices and inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances, increased pressure to reduce the price of our flavors and fragrances or order cancellations. to the extent that the volatility in global economic conditions continues, our sales, profitability and overall operating results could be adversely affected. we may not successfully develop and introduce new products that appeal to our customers or our customers may not accurately anticipate and respond to global consumer market trends. our growth and performance largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that appeal to our customers, and ultimately to global consumers. we must continually anticipate and react to, in a timely and cost-efficient manner, changes in consumer preferences and demands. we cannot be certain that we will successfully achieve our innovation goals, such as the development of new molecules, delivery methods and other technologies. we currently spend approximately 9% of our sales on research and development; however, such investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to successfully develop products that meet our customers' specifications, can be delivered at an acceptable price and are accepted by the targeted consumer market. furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur r&amp;d costs to the time that these r&amp;d costs may result in increased revenue. consequently, even when we win a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, poor performance of our third-party vendors, insufficient resources allocated by our customers to promoting the new product, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands, or disruptive innovations by our competitors. 12 if we are unable to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods, it may result in regulatory non-compliance, litigation costs, and harm to our reputation, all of which may adversely impact sales and our results of operations. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to (i) identify current product standards, (ii) assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, (iii) monitor internal and external performance and (iv) test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance. gaps in our operational processes could adversely affect the quality of our finished products and result in a regulatory non-compliance event. if a product non-compliance event were to go undetected, it could subject us to customer claims, recalls, penalties, litigation costs and settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. as our flavors and fragrances are used as ingredients in many products meant for human consumption, these consequences would be exacerbated if our customer did not identify the defect and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. such a result could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, recalls and potential consumer litigation. furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation. a disruption in operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a company engaged in development, manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no control. if any of these events were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, while we have manufacturing facilities throughout the world, certain of our facilities are the sole manufacturer of a specific ingredient. if the manufacture of that ingredient were disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing the production of an ingredient or reformulating a product may be substantial, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. our performance may be adversely impacted if we are not successful in managing our inventory and/or working capital balances. we evaluate our inventory balances of materials based on shelf life, known uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity and changes in our product/sales mix. efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success and profitability. to be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product/sales mix to meet our customers' demands, without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs associated with storing and holding other inventory adversely impact our financial results. if our buying decisions do not accurately predict customer trends or our expectations about customer needs are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns or impairment charges to dispose of the excess or obsolete inventory, which also can adversely impact our financial results. additionally, we believe excess inventory levels of raw materials with a short shelf life in our manufacturing facilities subjects us to the risk of increased inventory shrinkage. if we are not successful in managing our inventory balances and shrinkage, our results from operations and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected. we selectively participate in programs offered by certain of our global customers, whereby we accelerate the receipt of cash by selling the selected accounts receivable positions with these customers, on a non-recourse basis, at a discount to designated third party banks. should we choose not to participate, or if these programs were no longer available, it could reduce our cash flow from operations in the period in which the arrangement ends. our recent rationalization of our manufacturing facilities may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the expected cost savings and increased efficiencies. as part of our strategy, we seek to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth. to operate more efficiently and control costs, from time to time we execute rationalization activities, which include manufacturing facility consolidations. for example, during 2013, we announced the closure of three different facilities and the relocation and consolidation of those operations into other facilities. these activities may pose significant risks, which could include: 13 the risk that we may be unable to integrate successfully the relocated manufacturing operations; the risk that we may be unable to coordinate management and integrate and retain employees of the relocated manufacturing operations; the risk that we may face difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; potential strains on our personnel, systems and resources and diversion of attention from other priorities; and unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the relocated manufacturing operations. furthermore, our rationalization and consolidation actions may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the cost savings we expect from these actions. actual charges, costs and adjustments due to restructuring activities may vary materially from our estimates. our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to effectively reduce overhead, rationalize manufacturing capacity, synchronize information technology systems, consolidate warehousing and distribution facilities, and shift production to more efficient facilities. our restructuring plans may require cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in excess of budgeted amounts, which could offset any such savings and other synergies and therefore could have an adverse effect on our margins. we may not achieve expected efficiencies related to the proximity of our customers' production facilities to our manufacturing facilities, or with respect to existing or future production relocation plans. as part of our strategy, we have consolidated certain manufacturing facilities to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth. many of our facilities are located in close proximity to our customers in order to minimize both our customers' and our own costs. however, we may not have sufficient demand to utilize all of our production capacity and may be required to ship excess products to other regions in which we operate, which will increase our costs and decrease our margins. in addition, our expected growth may not be realized which would result in excess capacity and reduced margins. our foreign operations are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar non-u.s. anti-bribery regulations. non-compliance with such regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or other benefits, along with various other anti-corruption laws. in addition, we have manufacturing operations in some jurisdictions which pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues. as needed, we conduct internal investigations, control testing and compliance reviews to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable anti-corruption and similar laws and regulations. we could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with the fcpa or similar international laws and regulations could expose us to significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation. our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. as part of our strategy to protect our intellectual property rights, we often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. from time to time, a third party may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights, or a third party may infringe upon our intellectual property. as a result of such third party claims, we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves from assertions of invalidity, infringement or misappropriation. for those intellectual property rights that are protected by way of trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, as we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. for intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the 14 laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights or (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell. our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer. the market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. we face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multinational and specialized flavor and fragrance companies, as well as consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors or fragrances. some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product segments, while others participate in many of our product segments. in addition, some of our global competitors may have greater resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can. consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. competition in our business is based on innovation, product quality, regulatory compliance, pricing, quality of our customer service, the support provided by our marketing and application groups, and our understanding of consumers. it is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors' actions in these areas. the discovery and development of new flavor and fragrance materials, protection of the company's intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are important issues in our ability to compete in our businesses. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on sales and profitability. large multinational customers, and increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers, giving those that remain on core lists priority for new or modified products. to compete more successfully in this environment, we must continue to make investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers' needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on certain core lists. if we are unable to do so, it could adversely impact our future results of operations. our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. competition for these employees can be intense. the ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. however, we may not be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. if we experience significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected. our reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in a disruption to our business. for certain raw materials, we rely on a limited number of suppliers and we may not have readily available alternatives. if we are unable to maintain our supplier arrangements and relationships and are unable to obtain the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business, or if any of our key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other financial distress, we could experience disruptions in production and our financial results could be adversely affected. our results may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. we are involved in a number of legal claims and litigation, including claims related to indirect taxes. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. 15 the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect our pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. in the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. impairment charges on our long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of our long-lived assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our sales and our relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in our stock price. we continue to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on our business to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, we may perform impairment tests more frequently than annually required, based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute acquisitions, collaborations and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers or partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations, including employee integration; and challenges presented by acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our results of operations may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate. we have significant operations outside the u.s., the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. additionally, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition or liquidity. although we employ a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such hedging and risk management strategies will be effective, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our future results. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their 16 interpretation. in addition, the current administration and congress have announced proposals for new u.s. tax legislation that, if adopted, could affect our tax rate. any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. we are also subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate. we have and will continue to implement transfer pricing policies among our various operations located in different countries. these transfer pricing policies are a significant component of the management of our operations across international boundaries and overall financial results. many countries routinely examine transfer pricing policies of taxpayers subject to their jurisdiction, challenge transfer pricing policies aggressively where there is potential non-compliance and impose significant interest charges and penalties where non-compliance is determined. there can be no assurance that a governmental authority will not challenge these policies more aggressively in the future or, if challenged, that we will prevail. we could suffer significant costs related to one or more challenges to our transfer pricing. we may be subject to assessments or audits in the future in any of the countries in which we operate. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and while we do not believe the results that follow would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, such results could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made. our operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations. the availability of raw materials and energy supplies fluctuate in markets throughout the world. climate change may also affect the availability and price of key raw materials, including natural products used in the manufacture of our products. in order to mitigate the risk of price increases and shortages, our purchasers have developed various sourcing strategies, including multiple suppliers, inventory management systems, various geographic suppliers and long-term agreements to mitigate risk. in addition to market forces, there are various regulatory efforts relating to climate change that may increase the cost of raw materials, particularly energy used to operate our facilities, that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. information technology system failures or disruptions or breaches of our network security may adversely affect our business, interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. we have information technology systems that support our business processes, including product formulas, product development, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and intra-company communications throughout the world. these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, natural disasters, break-ins and similar events. effective response to such disruptions will require effort and diligence on the part of our third-party vendors and employees to avoid any adverse impact to our information technology systems. in addition, our systems and proprietary data stored electronically may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cybercrime, computer hacking and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. if such unauthorized use of our systems were to occur, data related to our product formulas, product development and other proprietary information could be compromised. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. the potential government regulation of certain of our product development initiatives is uncertain, and we may be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. as part of our ingredients research program, we seek to collaborate with research institutions and companies throughout the world, including biotechnology companies. however, it is unclear whether any of our product developments will be classified as genetically modified food products subject to regulation as a biotechnology product. the manufacture of biotechnology products is subject to applicable current good manufacturing practice (cgmp) regulations as prescribed by the food and drug administration and the applicable standards prescribed by european commission and the competent authorities of european union member states and to other rules and regulations prescribed by foreign regulatory authorities. compliance with these regulations can be expensive and time consuming. such regulation could also subject us to requirements for labeling and traceability, which may cause our customers to avoid our affected products and seek our competitors' products. this may result in our inability to realize any benefit from our investment and have an adverse effect on our operating results. 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. for the year ended december 31, 2013 , the company's exposure to market risk was estimated using sensitivity analyses, which illustrate the change in the fair value of a derivative financial instrument assuming hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. 46 we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding twelve months. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2013 , the company's foreign currency exposures pertaining to derivative contracts exist with the euro, japanese yen, british pound and indonesia rupiah. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the applicable balance sheet exchange rates (primarily against the u.s. dollar), the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would increase or decrease by approximately $40 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we have also used non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries, primarily in the european union. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro, the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $6 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed to variable rate interest rate swaps based on the libor plus an interest mark up. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of one percentage point in libor, the estimated fair value of the company's interest rate swaps would change by less than $11 million. at december 31, 2013 , the fair value of our fixed rate debt was $1,007.9 million. based on a hypothetical decrease of 10% in interest rates, the estimated fair value of the company's fixed debt would increase by $11 million. we purchase certain commodities, such as natural gas, electricity, petroleum based products and certain crop related items. we generally purchase these commodities based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the purchase process. in general, we do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge commodity prices.risk factors 10 risk factors. we routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. some of these risks may cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. below are certain important operational and strategic risks that could adversely affect our business. how we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors react to those developments, could also affect our future results. volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits. we use many different raw materials for our business, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. raw material costs continue to remain at elevated levels. historically, we have experienced the greatest amount of price volatility in natural products that represent approximately half of our raw material purchases. availability and pricing of these natural products, such as citrus and vanilla, can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather, alternative land use, and other factors which we cannot control. 10 if we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our fragrance or flavor products to cover raw material and other input cost increases, or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, we could fail to meet our cost expectations and our profits and operating results could be adversely affected. increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in volume, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, and other world events. as we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have an adverse long-term impact on our results of operations. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. however, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used for the geographic region in which we will need these materials, our margins could be adversely affected. our international operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues, cash flows or financial position. we operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the united states, europe, africa, the middle east, latin america, and greater asia. during 2014, 79% of our net sales were to customers outside the united states and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors in this section and include the following: governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that may impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates and currency fluctuations; changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, such as the continued implementation of the european union's reach regulations, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with such regulations; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors or fragrances to surrounding markets; our ability to anticipate and adapt our flavors and fragrances to local preferences; risks and costs arising from language and cultural differences; changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, and the costs and ability to repatriate the revenue that we generate in these countries; the impact of recessionary economic conditions outside of the united states; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained personnel; national and regional labor strikes in the countries in which we operate; risks and costs associated with health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic; or 11 the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights. these factors may increase in importance as we expand our operations in emerging markets as part of our growth strategy, and the occurrence of any one or more of these factors could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. we have made investments in and are expanding our business into emerging markets and regions, which exposes us to certain risks. as part of our growth strategy, we have increased our presence in emerging markets by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets, and we expect to continue to focus on expanding our business in these markets. in addition to the currency and international operation risks described above, our operations in these markets may be subject to a variety of other risks. these risks include economies that include consumers with limited or fluctuating disposable income and discretionary spending on which the end users of our products depend, weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization or other government actions affecting taxes, subsidies and incentive programs and the flow of goods and currency. in conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in customs and tax regimes that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. the increase in demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been driven by factors outside of our control, and if these factors do not persist our future growth could be adversely affected. demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and consumer needs, an expanding global middle-class and general economic growth, especially in emerging markets. approximately 50% of our sales during 2014 were generated in emerging markets and we expect emerging markets to continue to significantly contribute to our future growth. increasing consumer demand for products using flavors and fragrances is dependent on factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, consumer health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world's population, all of which are outside of our control. changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could materially adversely impact our results of operations. accordingly, our future growth will depend upon the continued economic growth and development of consumer spending on products for which we supply flavors and fragrances in these global markets. our results of operations may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate. we have significant operations outside the u.s., the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. changes in exchange rates between these local currencies and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded levels of sales, profitability, assets and/or liabilities. additionally, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows or liquidity. although we employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such hedging and risk management strategies will be effective, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. volatility in the global economy may adversely affect consumer spending and may negatively impact our business and operating results. our flavors and fragrances are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. since mid-2008, the global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. while some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the ongoing global recessionary economic environment in europe has, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. in addition, growth rates in the emerging markets have moderated from previous levels. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances, increased pressure to reduce the price of our flavors and fragrances or order cancellations. to the extent that the volatility in global economic conditions continues, our sales, profitability and overall operating results could be adversely affected. 12 we may not successfully develop and introduce new products that appeal to our customers or our customers may not accurately anticipate and respond to global consumer market trends, which may adversely affect our results of operations. our growth and performance largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that appeal to our customers, and ultimately to global consumer needs. we must continually anticipate and react to, in a timely and cost-efficient manner, changes in consumer preferences and demands. we cannot be certain that we will successfully achieve our innovation goals, such as the development of new molecules, delivery methods and other technologies. we currently spend approximately 8% of our sales on research and development; however, such investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to successfully develop products that meet our customers' specifications, can be delivered at an acceptable price and are accepted by the targeted consumer market. furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur r&amp;d costs to the time that these r&amp;d costs may result in increased revenue. consequently, even when we win a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous customer, economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, poor performance of our third-party vendors, reduced or insufficient resources allocated by our customers to promoting the new product, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands, or disruptive innovations by our competitors. if we are unable to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods, it may result in regulatory non-compliance, litigation costs, and harm to our reputation, all of which may adversely impact sales and our results of operations. the development, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are developed, manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to (i) identify current product standards, (ii) assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, (iii) monitor internal and external performance and (iv) test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance. gaps in our operational processes could adversely affect the quality of our finished products and result in a regulatory non-compliance event. if a product non-compliance event were to go undetected, it could subject us to customer claims, recalls, penalties, litigation costs and settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. as our flavors and fragrances are used as ingredients in many products meant for human consumption, these consequences would be exacerbated if our customer did not identify the defect and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. such a result could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, recalls and potential consumer litigation. furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation. a disruption in operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a company engaged in development, manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no control. if any of these events were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, while we have manufacturing facilities throughout the world, certain of our facilities are the sole source of a specific ingredient or product. if the manufacture of these ingredients or products was disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing their production or reformulating them may be substantial, which could result in production delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. our performance may be adversely impacted if we are not successful in managing our inventory and/or working capital balances. we evaluate our inventory balances of materials based on shelf life, expected sourcing levels, known uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity and changes in our product/sales mix. efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success, financial returns profitability. to be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product/sales mix to meet our customers' demands, without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs associated with storing and holding other inventory adversely impact our financial results. if our buying 13 decisions do not accurately predict sourcing levels, customer trends or our expectations about customer needs are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns or impairment charges to dispose of the excess or obsolete inventory, which can adversely impact our financial results. additionally, we believe excess inventory levels of raw materials with a short shelf life in our manufacturing facilities subjects us to the risk of increased inventory shrinkage. if we are not successful in managing our inventory balances and shrinkage, our results from operations and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected. the company sells certain accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to unrelated financial institutions under factoring agreements that are sponsored, solely and individually, by certain customers. the cost of participating in these programs was immaterial to our results in all periods. should we choose not to participate, or if these programs were no longer available, it could reduce our cash from operations in the period in which the arrangement ends. our ongoing optimization of our manufacturing facilities may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the expected cost savings and increased efficiencies. as part of our strategy, we seek to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth. to operate more efficiently and control costs, from time to time we execute rationalization activities, which include manufacturing facility consolidations. for example, during 2014, we closed our augusta, georgia facility and relocated and consolidated its operations into other facilities and we are in the midst of relocating our ingredients facility in hangzhou china. our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements from these activities may be affected by a number of factors and may pose significant risks, including: the risk that we may be unable to integrate successfully the relocated manufacturing operations; the risk that we may be unable to effectively reduce overhead, coordinate management and integrate and retain employees of the relocated manufacturing operations; the risk that we may face difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; potential strains on our personnel, systems and resources and diversion of attention from other priorities; and unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the relocated manufacturing operations. furthermore, our rationalization and consolidation actions may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the cost savings we expect from these actions. actual charges, costs and adjustments due to these activities may vary materially from our estimates, and these activities may require cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in excess of budgeted amounts, which could offset any such savings and other synergies and therefore could have an adverse effect on our margins. we may not achieve expected efficiencies related to the proximity of our customers' production facilities to our manufacturing facilities, or with respect to existing or future production relocation plans. as part of our strategy, we manage our global manufacturing footprint to enhance manufacturing efficiencies andalign with our expectations of future growth and technology needs. many of our facilities are located in close proximity to our customers in order to minimize both our customers' and our own costs. however, we may not have sufficient demand to utilize all of our production capacity and may be required to ship excess products to other regions in which we operate, which will increase our costs and decrease our margins. in addition, our expected growth may not be realized which would result in excess capacity and reduced margins. we are subject to laws and regulations governing anti-bribery and corruption, and non-compliance with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to a wide range of laws and regulations to prevent corruption, bribery and other unethical business practices, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar laws and regulations in other countries. these laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or other benefits. in addition, we have manufacturing operations in some jurisdictions which pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues. as needed, we conduct internal investigations, control testing and compliance reviews to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable corruption and similar laws and regulations. we could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and 14 other regulatory bodies. any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with the fcpa or similar international laws and regulations could expose us to significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation. our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. as part of our strategy to protect our intellectual property rights, we often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. from time to time, a third party may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights, or a third party may infringe upon our intellectual property. as a result of such third party claims, we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves from assertions of invalidity, infringement or misappropriation. for those intellectual property rights that are protected by way of trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, as we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. for intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights or (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell. our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer. the market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. we face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multinational and specialized flavor and fragrance companies, as well as consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors or fragrances. some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product segments, while others participate in many of our product segments. in addition, some of our global competitors may have greater resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can. consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. competition in our business is based on innovation, product quality, regulatory compliance, pricing, quality of our customer service, the support provided by our marketing and application groups, and our understanding of consumers. it is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors' actions in these areas. the discovery and development of new flavor and fragrance materials, protection of the company's intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are important issues in our ability to compete in our business. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an adverse impact on sales and profitability. large multinational customers, and increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers, giving those that remain on core lists priority for new or modified products. to compete more successfully in this environment, we must continue to make investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers' needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on certain core lists. if we are unable to do so, it could adversely impact our future results of operations. our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. competition for these employees can be intense. the ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. however, we may not be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. if we experience significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected. 15 our reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in a disruption to our business and may adversely affect our financial results. for certain raw materials, we rely on a limited number of suppliers and we may not have readily available alternatives. if we are unable to maintain our supplier arrangements and relationships and are unable to obtain the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business, or if any of our key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other financial distress, we could experience disruptions in production and our financial results could be adversely affected. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. we are involved in a number of legal claims and litigation, including claims related to indirect taxes. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect our pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. in the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. impairment charges on our long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. future events may occur that could adversely affect the reported value of our long-lived assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our sales and our relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in our stock price. we continue to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on our business to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, we may perform impairment tests more frequently than annually required, based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute acquisitions, collaborations and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate and enter into acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable targets or partners, perform effective assessments prior to contract execution, negotiate contract terms, and, if applicable, obtain governmental approvals. for example, in january 2014, we completed the acquisition of aromor flavors and fragrances ltd., a manufacturer and marketer of complex specialty ingredients. these activities may present certain financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations, including employee integration; and challenges presented by acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 16 changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our future results. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. in addition, the current administration and congress have announced proposals for new u.s. tax legislation that, if adopted, could affect our tax rate. any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. we are also subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate. we have and will continue to implement transfer pricing policies among our various operations located in different countries. these transfer pricing policies are a significant component of the management of our operations across international boundaries and overall financial results. many countries routinely examine transfer pricing policies of taxpayers subject to their jurisdiction, challenge transfer pricing policies aggressively where there is potential non-compliance and impose significant interest charges and penalties where non-compliance is determined. there can be no assurance that a governmental authority will not challenge these policies more aggressively in the future or, if challenged, that we will prevail. we could suffer significant costs related to one or more challenges to our transfer pricing. we may be subject to assessments or audits in the future in any of the countries in which we operate. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and while we do not believe the results that follow would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, such results could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made. our operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations. the availability of raw materials and energy supplies fluctuate in markets throughout the world. climate change may also affect the availability and price of key raw materials, including natural products used in the manufacture of our products. in order to mitigate the risk of price increases and shortages, our purchasers have developed various sourcing strategies, including multiple suppliers, inventory management systems, various geographic suppliers and long-term agreements to mitigate risk. in addition to market forces, there are various regulatory efforts relating to climate change that may increase the cost of raw materials, particularly energy used to operate our facilities, that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. information technology system failures or disruptions or breaches of our network security may adversely affect our business, interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. we have information technology systems that support our business processes, including product formulas, product development, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and intra-company communications throughout the world. these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, natural disasters, break-ins and similar events. effective response to such disruptions will require effort and diligence on the part of our third-party vendors and employees to avoid any adverse impact to our information technology systems. in addition, our systems and proprietary data stored electronically may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cybercrime, computer hacking and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. if such unauthorized use of our systems were to occur, data related to our product formulas, product development and other proprietary information could be compromised. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. the potential government regulation of certain of our product development initiatives is uncertain, and we may be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. as part of our ingredients research program, we seek to collaborate with research institutions and companies throughout the world, including biotechnology companies. however, it is unclear whether any of our product developments will be classified as genetically modified food products subject to regulation as a biotechnology product. the manufacture of biotechnology products is subject to applicable current good manufacturing practice (cgmp) regulations as prescribed by the food and drug administration and the applicable standards prescribed by european commission and the competent authorities of european 17 union member states and to other rules and regulations prescribed by foreign regulatory authorities. compliance with these regulations can be expensive and time consuming. such regulation could also subject us to requirements for labeling and traceability, which may cause our customers to avoid our affected products and seek our competitors' products. this may result in our inability to realize any benefit from our investment and have an adverse effect on our operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. for the year ended december 31, 2014 , the company's exposure to market risk was estimated using sensitivity analyses, which illustrate the change in the fair value of a derivative financial instrument assuming hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding twelve months. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2014 , the company's foreign currency exposures pertaining to derivative contracts exist with the euro, japanese yen, south african rand, and chinese renminbi. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the applicable balance sheet exchange rates (primarily against the u.s. dollar), the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would increase or decrease by approximately $25 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we have also used non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries, primarily in the european union. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro, the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $4 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed to variable rate interest rate swaps based on the libor plus an interest mark up. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of one percentage point in libor, the estimated fair value of the company's interest rate swaps would change by less than $10 million. at december 31, 2014 , the fair value of our fixed rate debt was $1 billion. based on a hypothetical decrease of 10% in interest rates, the estimated fair value of the company's fixed debt would increase by $8 million. we purchase certain commodities, such as natural gas, electricity, petroleum based products and certain crop related items. we generally purchase these commodities based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the purchase process. in general, we do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge commodity prices.risk factors 12 risk factors. we routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. some of these risks may cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. below are certain important operational and strategic risks that could adversely affect our business. how we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors react to those developments, could also affect our future results. our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer. the market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. we face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multinational and specialized flavor, fragrance and cosmetic ingredients companies, as well as consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors, fragrances or cosmetic ingredients. in the flavors industry, we also face increasing competition from ingredient suppliers that have expanded their portfolios to include flavor offerings. some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product sub-segments, while others participate in many of our product sub-segments. in addition, some of our global competitors may have greater resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can. consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. as we are new to cosmetic ingredients, we may face greater competition-related risks in this industry than with our core historic flavor and fragrances business. competition in our business is based on innovation, product quality, regulatory compliance, pricing, quality of customer service, the support provided by marketing and application groups, and understanding of consumers. it is difficult for us to predict the timing, scale and success of our competitors' actions in these areas. the discovery and development of new flavor and fragrance materials, protection of the company's intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are important issues in our ability to compete in our business. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an adverse impact on sales and profitability. during 2015, our 25 largest customers accounted for 52% of our sales, and sales to our largest customer accounted for 12% of our sales in each of the last three fiscal years. disruption of sales to this customer or any of our other large customers for an extended period of time could adversely affect our business or financial results. large multinational customers, and increasingly, mid-sized customers are unilaterally limiting the number of their suppliers or rationalizing the number of products that they offer to increase their margins and profitability. as part of these initiatives, these customers are creating core lists of suppliers and giving these core lists suppliers priority for new or modified products. recently, these customers are making inclusion on their core lists contingent upon a supplier providing more favorable commercial terms which may adversely affect our margins. these, and other profitability initiatives being pursued by our customers, reduce the market opportunity for which we compete and subject the volume and pricing of the remaining suppliers to downward pressure. to compete more successfully in this environment, we must continue to make investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers' needs, deliver supplies that contribute to our customers' profitability, provide effective service and offer competitive cost-in-use solutions to secure and maintain inclusion on certain core lists and our share of our customers' purchases. if we are unable to do so, it could adversely impact our future results of operations. we may not be able to successfully identify and complete sufficient acquisitions to meet our vision 2020 strategy, and even if we are able to do so, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. as part of our new vision 2020 strategy, we intend to add between $500 million and $1.0 billion of sales growth through acquisitions within the flavors and fragrances industries and adjacencies. during 2015, we negotiated and closed two acquisitions which align with this strategic objective. specifically, in may 2015, we completed the acquisition of ottens 12 flavors, a flavor supplier and developer and in july 2015, we completed the acquisition of lucas meyer cosmetics, a developer, manufacturer and marketer of cosmetic active ingredients. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or complete acquisitions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. our recent acquisitions have required, and any similar future transactions may also require, significant efforts and expenditures, including with respect to integrating the acquired business with our historical business. we may encounter unexpected difficulties, or incur unexpected costs, in connection with acquisition activities and integration efforts, which include: diversion of management attention from managing our historical core business; potential disruption of our historical core business of the acquired business; the strain on, and need to continue to expand, our existing operational, technical, financial and administrative infrastructure; the challenges related to the lack of experience in operating in the geographical or product markets of the acquired business; challenges in controlling additional costs and expenses in connection with and as a result of the acquisition; the difficulties in assimilating employees and corporate cultures or in integrating systems and controls; difficulties in anticipating and responding to actions that may be taken by competitors in response to the acquisitions; potential loss of key employees, customers, suppliers or other partners of the acquired business; and the assumption of and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses. if any of our acquisitions do not perform as anticipated for any of the reasons noted above or otherwise, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the failure of key information technology systems or a breach of our information security may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. we rely on information technology systems, including some managed by third-party providers, to conduct business and support our business processes, including product formulas, product development, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and intra-company communications throughout the world. these systems may be susceptible to disruptions or outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, natural disasters, cyber attacks and similar events, or due to the poor performance of third-party providers. effective response to such disruptions will require effort and diligence on the part of our employees and third-party providers to avoid any adverse impact to our business. in addition, our systems and proprietary data stored electronically may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cybercrime, computer hacking and similar information security breaches, which in turn could result in the unauthorized release or misuse of confidential or proprietary information about our business (including, but not limited to, the trade secrets upon which we rely to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations), employees, or customers, and disrupt our operations. depending on their nature and scope, these threats could potentially lead to improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data or product non-compliance. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our sales, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. the industries in which our customers operate are expanding and becoming increasingly decentralized, and if we and/or our customers are unable to adjust, our operating results and future growth may be adversely affected. our customers include large food and beverage companies, which operate in highly competitive industries and rely on continued consumer demand for their products. in recent years many of our customers have faced growing competition from mid-size regional companies and companies focused on niche-product categories driving and accelerating product innovation. consequently, the food and beverage industry is expanding and becoming increasingly decentralized. if our customers fail to adequately address the challenges pertaining to this expansion and decentralization of business, it may adversely affect their operations or financial performance, and could have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. if our global customers' 13 market shares continue to erode and we are unable to gain market share with small and mid-sized customers in this evolved environment, our operating results and future growth could be adversely affected. we have made investments in and are expanding our business into emerging markets, which exposes us to certain risks. as part of our growth strategy, we have increased our presence in emerging markets by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets, and we expect to continue to focus on expanding our business in these markets. in addition to the currency and international operation risks described below, our operations in these markets may be subject to a variety of other risks. emerging markets typically have a consumer base with limited or fluctuating disposable income and customer demand in these markets may fluctuate accordingly. as a result, decrease in customer demand in emerging markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our growth strategy. in addition, emerging markets may have weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization or other government actions that may affect taxes, subsidies and incentive programs and the flow of goods and currency. in conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in customs and tax regimes that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. we may not successfully develop and introduce new products that meet our customers' needs, which may adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to differentiate ourselves and deliver growth in line with our vision 2020 strategy largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that meet our customers' needs, and ultimately appeal to consumers. innovation is a key element of our ability to develop and introduce new products. we cannot be certain that we will successfully achieve our innovation goals, such as the development of new molecules, new and expanded delivery systems and other technologies. we currently spend approximately 8% of our sales on research and development; however, such investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to successfully develop products that meet our customers' specifications, can be delivered at an acceptable cost in use and are accepted by the targeted consumer market. furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur r&amp;d costs to the time that these r&amp;d costs may result in increased revenue. consequently, even when we win a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous customer, economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, the level of promotional support for the launch, poor performance of our third-party vendors, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands, or disruptive innovations by competitors. increasing awareness of health and wellness are driving changes in the consumer products industry, and if we are unable to react in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected. we must continually anticipate and react, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to changes in consumer preferences and demands, including changes in demand driven by increasing awareness of health and wellness and demands for transparency with respect to product ingredients. consumers, especially in developed economies such as the united states and western europe, are shifting away from products containing artificial ingredients to all natural, healthier alternatives. in addition, there has been a growing demand by consumers and governmental agencies to provide more transparency in product labeling and our customers have been taking steps to address this demand, including by voluntarily providing product-specific fragrance ingredients disclosure. these two trends could affect the types and volumes of our flavors and fragrances that our customers include in their product offerings. if we are unable to react to or anticipate these trends in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected. we may not succeed in establishing and maintaining collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships, and such arrangements may not lead to development or commercialization of products, which may limit our ability to execute our vision 2020 strategy and adversely affect our future growth. from time to time and in line with our new vision 2020 strategy, we may evaluate and enter into collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships to enhance our research and development efforts. our ability to generate revenues from such collaborations will depend on our partners' abilities and efforts to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. the process of establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. we may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements should we choose to enter into such arrangements, and the terms of the arrangements may not be favorable to us. additionally, collaborations may not lead to development or commercialization of products in the most efficient manner, or at all. if we are 14 unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms or to successfully transition terminated collaborative agreements, it could limit our ability to execute our vision 2020 strategy and adversely affect our future growth. the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate may negatively affect our results of operations. we have significant operations outside the united states, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into united states dollars at applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. the exchange rates between these currencies and the united states dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. changes in exchange rates between these local currencies and the united states dollar will affect the recorded levels of sales, profitability, assets and/or liabilities. for example, the weakening of the euro and several emerging market currencies in 2015 resulted in approximately $33 million impact on operating profit versus 2014. additionally, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows or liquidity. although we employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such hedging and risk management strategies will be effective, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. our international operations are subject to regulatory, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues, cash flows or financial position. we operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the united states, europe, africa, the middle east, latin america, and greater asia. during 2015, 77% of our net sales were to customers outside the united states and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by location, are also described in many of the risk factors in this section and include the following: governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that may impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates, currency fluctuations and sustainability of resources; changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, such as the continued implementation of the european union's reach regulations, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with such regulations; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors or fragrances to surrounding markets; risks and costs arising from language and cultural differences; changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, and the costs and ability to repatriate the profit that we generate in these countries; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, bribery and corruption, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained local personnel; national and regional labor strikes in the countries in which we operate; or the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights. these factors may increase in importance as we expand our operations in emerging markets as part of our growth strategy, and the occurrence of any one or more of these factors could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. 15 volatility and challenging economic conditions may adversely affect demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances (including cosmetic active ingredients) may have a negative impact on our operating results and future growth. our flavors and fragrances (including cosmetic active ingredients) are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. historically, demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances (including cosmetic active ingredients) was stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and consumer needs, population growth, an expanding global middle-class and general economic growth, especially in emerging markets. the global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. while some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the ongoing global recessionary economic environment in europe has, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. in addition, growth rates in the emerging markets have moderated from previous levels. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances (including cosmetic active ingredients), or order cancellations. for example, recent challenging economic conditions in china and latin america, which culminated in the weakening of the chinese yuan, brazilian real and argentinian peso, have undermined consumer confidence and resulted in our customers throughout the emerging markets taking a more cautious approach to managing their inventory. the timing of placing of orders and the amounts of these orders are generally at our customers' discretion. customers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders with us on relatively short notice. significant cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by customers could affect our quarterly results. it is currently anticipated that these challenging economic conditions will continue during 2016. to the extent that the volatility in global economic conditions continues, our sales, profitability and overall operating results could be adversely affected. our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. competition for these employees can be intense. the ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. however, we may not be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. if we experience significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected. failure to comply with environmental protection laws may cause us to close, relocate or operate one or more of our plants at reduced production levels, which could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. our business operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to protection of the environment, including air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including the need to close or relocate one or more of our production facilities, administrative, civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. if we are unable to meet production requirements, we can lose customer orders, which can adversely affect our future growth or we may be required to make incremental capital investments to ensure supply. for example, in 2015 chinese authorities notified us of compliance issues pertaining to the emission of odors from several of our plants in china and, consequently, our flavors facility in china was temporarily idled and another facility was required to modify its production schedule. as a result of these issues, we invested approximately $6.5 million in odor-abatement equipment at these facilities and have approved a new capital project of approximately $45 million to construct a second flavors manufacturing facility in china. such idling of facilities or production modifications has caused or may cause customers to seek alternate suppliers due to concerns regarding supply interruptions and these customers may not return or may order at reduced levels even once issues are remediated. if these non-compliance issues reoccur in china or occur or in any other jurisdiction, we may lose business and may be required to incur capital spending above previous expectations, close a plant, or operate a plant at significantly reduced production levels on a permanent basis, and our operating results and cash flows from operations may be adversely affected. our ongoing optimization of our manufacturing facilities may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the expected cost savings and increased efficiencies. 16 as part of our strategy, we seek to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth and technology needs. many of our facilities are located in close proximity to our customers in order to minimize both our customers' and our own costs. however, we may not have sufficient demand to utilize all of our production capacity and may be required to ship excess products to other regions in which we operate, which will increase our costs and decrease our margins. to operate more efficiently and control costs, from time to time we also execute rationalization activities, which include manufacturing facility consolidations. for example, we are in the midst of relocating our ingredients facility in hangzhou, china and constructing a new flavors site in indonesia. we have also initiated a study regarding our existing footprint and manufacturing capabilities that serve the indian market. the spending associated with these projects may result in capital spending above previous expectations. our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements from these activities may be affected by a number of factors and may pose significant risks, including: the risk that we may be unable to integrate successfully the relocated manufacturing operations; the risk that we may be unable to effectively reduce overhead, coordinate management and integrate and retain employees of the relocated manufacturing operations; the risk that we may face difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; potential strains on our personnel, systems and resources and diversion of attention from other priorities; and unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the relocated manufacturing operations. furthermore, our rationalization and consolidation actions may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the cost savings we expect from these actions. actual charges, costs and adjustments due to these activities may vary materially from our estimates, and these activities may require cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in excess of budgeted amounts, which could offset any such savings and other synergies and therefore could have an adverse effect on our margins. volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits. we use many different raw materials for our business, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. while raw material costs have been relatively stable during 2015, historically, we have experienced a considerable amount of price volatility in natural products that represent approximately half of our raw material purchases. availability and pricing of these natural products can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather, alternative land use, and other factors which we cannot control. if we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our fragrance or flavor products to offset raw material and other input cost increases, or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, we could fail to meet our cost expectations and our profits and operating results could be adversely affected. increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in volume, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, and other world events. as we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have an adverse long-term impact on our results of operations. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. however, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used for the geographic region in which we will need these materials, our margins could be adversely affected. our reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in a disruption to our business and may adversely affect our financial results. 17 for certain raw materials, we rely on a limited number of suppliers and we may not have readily available alternatives. if we are unable to maintain our supplier arrangements and relationships and are unable to obtain the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business, or if any of our key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other financial distress, we could experience disruptions in production and our financial results could be adversely affected. if we are unable to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods, it may result in regulatory non-compliance, litigation costs, and harm to our reputation, all of which may adversely impact sales and our results of operations. the development, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are developed, manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to (i) identify current product standards, (ii) assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, (iii) monitor internal and external performance and (iv) test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance. gaps in our operational processes could adversely affect the quality of our finished products and result in a regulatory non-compliance event. if a product non-compliance event were to go undetected, it could subject us to customer claims, recalls, penalties, litigation costs and settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. as our flavors, fragrances and cosmetic actives are used as ingredients in many products meant for human use or consumption, these consequences would be exacerbated if we or our customer did not identify the defect before the product reaches the consumer and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. such a result could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, recalls and potential consumer litigation. furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales and customer relationships, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation. a disruption in our operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a company engaged in research and development, manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems,disruption or loss of key research or manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no control. while we have research and development and manufacturing facilities throughout the world, many of these facilities are extremely specialized and certain of our facilities are the sole source of a specific ingredient or product. if our research and development activities or the manufacturing of ingredients or products were disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing these activities or reformulating these ingredients or products may be substantial, which could result in production or development delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our margins, operating results and future growth. our performance may be adversely impacted if we are not successful in managing our inventory and/or working capital balances. we evaluate our inventory balances of materials based on shelf life, expected sourcing levels, known uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity and changes in our product/sales mix. efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success, financial returns and profitability. to be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product/sales mix to meet our customers' demands, without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs associated with storing and holding other inventory adversely impact our financial results. if our buying decisions do not accurately predict sourcing levels, customer trends or our expectations about customer needs are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns or impairment charges to dispose of the excess or obsolete inventory, which can adversely impact our financial results. additionally, we believe excess inventory levels of raw materials with a short shelf life in our manufacturing facilities subjects us to the risk of increased inventory shrinkage. if we are not successful in managing our inventory balances and shrinkage, our results of and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected. we sell certain accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to unrelated financial institutions under factoring agreements that are sponsored, solely and individually, by certain customers. the cost of participating in these programs was immaterial to our results in all periods. should we choose not to participate, or if these programs were no longer available, it could reduce our cash flows from operations in the period in which the arrangement ends. 18 we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar u.s. or foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. the global nature of our business, the significance of our international revenue and our focus on emerging markets create various domestic and local regulatory challenges and subject us to risks associated with our international operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in other countries generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or for other commercial advantage. in addition, u.s. public companies are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. under the fcpa, u.s. companies may be held liable for the corrupt actions taken by directors, officers, employees, agents, or other strategic or local partners or representatives. as such, if we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the fcpa or similar legislation, governmental authorities in the united states and elsewhere could seek to impose substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. we operate or may pursue opportunities in some jurisdictions, such as china, india, brazil and africa, which pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues. in certain jurisdictions, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. from time to time, we have conducted and will conduct internal investigations of the relevant facts and circumstances, control testing and compliance reviews, and take remedial actions, when appropriate, to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable corruption and similar laws and regulations. detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of the fcpa or similar laws is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. we could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. any allegations of non-compliance with the fcpa or similar laws could have a disruptive effect on our operations in such jurisdiction over the near term, including interruptions of business or loss of third-party relationships, which may negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with the fcpa or similar laws could expose us to severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, significant fines, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation. our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. we often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. from time to time, a third party may claim that we have infringed upon or misappropriated their intellectual property rights, or a third party may infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property rights. we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights against third parties or to defend ourselves from third party assertions of invalidity, infringement or misappropriation or other claims. any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such litigation could require us to obtain a license to continue to use the intellectual property rights that are the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of such intellectual property rights. any required licensing fees may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. for those intellectual property rights that are protected as trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, since we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. the ongoing trend among our customers towards more transparent labeling could further diminish our ability to effectively protect our proprietary flavor formulations. for intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights or (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. from time to time we are involved in a number of legal claims and litigation, including claims related to intellectual property, product liability, environmental matters and indirect taxes. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an 19 increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. in addition, if we were found liable, we could be subject to certain indemnification claims. there can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to pending and future claims or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect our pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. in the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. any future impairment of our tangible or intangible long-lived assets may adversely impact our profitability. a significant portion of our assets consists of long-lived assets, including tangible assets such as our manufacturing facilities, and intangible assets and goodwill. as of december 31, 2015, we had recorded $1.2 billion of intangible assets and goodwill including goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions. long-lived assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. additionally, goodwill is subject to an impairment test at least annually. indicators such as underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, changes in the company's strategy for its overall business or use of acquired assets, unexpected negative industry or economic trends, decreased market capitalization relative to net book values, unanticipated competitive activities, change in consumer demand, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts may signal that an asset has become impaired. to the extent any of our acquisitions do not perform as anticipated, whether due to internal or external factors, the value of such assets may be negatively affected and we may be required to record impairment charges. our results of operations and financial position in future periods could be negatively impacted should future impairments of our long-lived assets, including intangible assets or goodwill occur. changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new united states or international tax legislation, or changes in existing tax laws could expose us to additional tax liabilities that may affect our future results. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. we have and will continue to implement transfer pricing policies among our various operations located in different countries. these transfer pricing policies are a significant component of the management and compliance of our operations across international boundaries and overall financial results. many countries routinely examine transfer pricing policies of taxpayers subject to their jurisdiction, challenge transfer pricing policies aggressively where there is potential non-compliance and impose significant interest charges and penalties where non-compliance is determined. there can be no assurance that a governmental authority will not challenge these policies more aggressively in the future or, if challenged, that we will prevail. we could suffer significant costs related to one or more challenges to our transfer pricing. we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate, and we may be subject to assessments or audits in the future in any of the 20 countries in which we operate. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and while we do not believe the results that follow would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, such results could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made. in addition, a number of international legislative and regulatory bodies have proposed legislation and begun investigations of the tax practices of multinational companies and, in the european union ( eu ), the tax policies of certain eu member states. one of these efforts has been led by the oecd, an international association of 34 countries including the united states, which has finalized recommendations to revise corporate tax, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions in member countries. since 2013, the european commission ( ec ) has been investigating tax rulings granted by tax authorities in a number of eu member states with respect to specific multinational corporations to determine whether such rulings comply with eu rules on state aid, as well as more recent investigations of the tax regimes of certain eu member states. under eu law, selective tax advantages for particular taxpayers that are not sufficiently grounded in economic realities may constitute impermissible state aid. if the ec determines that a tax ruling or tax regime violates the state aid restrictions, the tax authorities of the affected eu member state may be required to collect back taxes for the period of time covered by the ruling. in late 2015 and early 2016, the ec declared that tax rulings by tax authorities in luxembourg, the netherlands and belgium did not comply with the eu state aid restrictions. if the ec were to successfully challenge tax rulings applicable to us in any of the eu member states in which we are subject to taxation, we could be exposed to increased tax liabilities. our operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations. the availability of raw materials and energy supplies fluctuate in markets throughout the world. climate change may also affect the availability and price of key raw materials, including natural products used in the manufacture of our products. in order to mitigate the risk of price increases and shortages, our purchasers have developed various sourcing strategies, including multiple suppliers, inventory management systems, various geographic suppliers and long-term agreements to mitigate risk. in addition to market forces, there are various regulatory efforts relating to climate change that may increase the cost of raw materials, particularly energy used to operate our facilities, that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the potential government regulation of certain of our product development initiatives is uncertain, and we may be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. as part of our ingredients research program, we seek to collaborate with research institutions and companies throughout the world, including biotechnology companies. however, it is unclear whether any of our product developments will be classified as genetically modified food products subject to regulation as a biotechnology product. the manufacture of biotechnology products is subject to applicable current good manufacturing practice (cgmp) regulations as prescribed by the food and drug administration and the applicable standards prescribed by european commission and the competent authorities of european union member states and to other rules and regulations prescribed by foreign regulatory authorities. compliance with these regulations can be expensive and time consuming. such regulation could also subject us to requirements for labeling and traceability, which may cause our customers to avoid our affected products and seek our competitors' products. this may result in our inability to realize any benefit from our investment and have an adverse effect on our operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. for the year ended december 31, 2015 , the company's exposure to market risk was estimated using sensitivity analyses, which illustrate the change in the fair value of a derivative financial instrument assuming hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding twelve months. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2015 , the company's foreign currency exposures pertaining to derivative contracts exist with the euro, japanese yen, south african rand, british pound, canadian dollar and australian dollar. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the applicable balance sheet exchange rates (primarily against the u.s. dollar), the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would increase or decrease by approximately $36 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we have also used non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries, primarily in the european union. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro, the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $10 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed to variable rate interest rate swaps based on the libor plus an interest mark up. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of one percentage point in libor, the estimated fair value of the company's interest rate swaps would change by less than $8 million. at december 31, 2015 , the fair value of our fixed rate debt was $982 million. based on a hypothetical decrease of 10% in interest rates, the estimated fair value of the company's fixed debt would increase by $7 million. we purchase certain commodities, such as natural gas, electricity, petroleum based products and certain crop related items. we generally purchase these commodities based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the purchase process. in general, we do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge commodity prices.risk factors 11 risk factors. we routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. some of these risks may cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. below are material risks we have identified that could adversely affect our business. how we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors and customers react to those developments, could also affect our future results. our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer. the market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. we face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multi-national and specialized flavor, fragrance and cosmetic ingredients companies, as well as consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors, fragrances or cosmetic ingredients. in the flavors industry, we also face increasing competition from ingredient suppliers that have expanded their portfolios to include flavor offerings. some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product sub-segments, while others participate in many of our product sub-segments. in addition, some of our global competitors may have greater resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can. consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. with our recent entry into cosmetic ingredients, we may face greater competition-related risks in this market than with our core historic flavor and fragrances businesses. competition in our business is based on innovation, product quality, regulatory compliance, pricing, quality of customer service, the support provided by marketing and application groups, and understanding of consumers. it is difficult for us to predict the timing, scale and success of our competitors' actions in these areas. the discovery and development of new flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients, protection of the company's intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are important issues in our ability to compete in our business. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an adverse impact on sales and profitability. during 2016, our 25 largest customers accounted for 52% of our sales, and sales to our largest customer accounted for 12% of our sales in each of the last three fiscal years. disruption of sales to this customer or any of our other large customers for an extended period of time could adversely affect our business or financial results. large multi-national customers, and increasingly, mid-sized customers are unilaterally limiting the number of their suppliers or rationalizing the number of products that they offer to increase their margins and profitability. as part of these initiatives, these 11 customers are creating core lists of suppliers and giving these core lists suppliers priority for new or modified products. recently, these customers are making inclusion on their core lists contingent upon a supplier providing more favorable commercial terms which may adversely affect our margins. these, and other profitability initiatives being pursued by our customers, reduce the market opportunity for which we compete and subject the volume and pricing of the remaining suppliers to downward pressure. to compete more successfully in this environment, we must continue to make investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers' needs, deliver supplies that contribute to our customers' profitability, provide effective customer service and offer competitive cost-in-use solutions to secure and maintain inclusion on certain core lists and our share of our customers' purchases. if we are unable to do so, it could adversely impact our future results of operations. we may not be able to successfully identify and complete sufficient acquisitions to meet our vision 2020 strategy, and even if we are able to do so, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. as part of our vision 2020 strategy, we intend to add between $500 million and $1.0 billion of sales growth through acquisitions within the flavors and fragrances industries and adjacencies. during 2015, we completed two acquisitions which align with this strategic objective, acquiring ottens flavors, a flavor supplier and developer, and lucas meyer cosmetics, a developer, manufacturer and marketer of cosmetic active and functional ingredients. in 2016, we acquired david michael, a privately-held flavors company, and announced our acquisition of fragrance resources, a privately-held fragrance company. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or complete acquisitions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. our recent acquisitions have required, and any similar future transactions may also require, significant efforts and expenditures, including with respect to integrating the acquired business with our historical business. we may encounter unexpected difficulties, or incur unexpected costs, in connection with acquisition activities and integration efforts, which include: diversion of management attention from managing our historical core business; potential disruption of our historical core business or of the acquired business; the strain on, and need to continue to expand, our existing operational, technical, financial and administrative infrastructure; challenges related to the lack of experience in operating in the geographical or product markets of the acquired business; challenges in controlling additional costs and expenses in connection with and as a result of the acquisition; difficulties in assimilating employees and corporate cultures or in integrating systems and controls; difficulties in anticipating and responding to actions that may be taken by competitors; difficulties in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; potential loss of key employees, key customers, suppliers or other partners of the acquired business; and the assumption of and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses. if any of our acquisitions do not perform as anticipated for any of the reasons noted above or otherwise, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the interruption or failure of key information technology systems or a loss of data, malicious attack or other breach of security of our information technology systems, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, subject us to increased operating costs, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation. we rely on information technology systems, including some managed by third-party providers, to conduct business and support our business processes, including product formulas, product development, sales, order processing, production, distribution, internal communications and communications with third parties throughout the world, processing transactions, summarizing 12 and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, tax or legal requirements, and collecting and storing customer, supplier, employee and other stakeholder information. these systems may be susceptible to disruptions or outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, natural disasters, cyber attacks, failed upgrades or other similar events, or due to the poor performance of third-party providers. effective response to such disruptions will require effort and diligence on the part of our employees and third-party providers to avoid any adverse impact to our business. in addition, our systems and proprietary data stored electronically may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cybercrime, computer hacking and similar information security breaches, which in turn could result in the unauthorized release or misuse of confidential or proprietary information about our business (including, but not limited to, the trade secrets upon which we rely to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations), employees, or customers, and disrupt our operations. depending on their nature and scope, these threats could potentially lead to improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data or product non-compliance. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our sales, subject us to increased operating costs, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation or regulatory proceedings. the industries in which our flavors customers operate are expanding and becoming increasingly decentralized, and if we and/or our customers are unable to adjust, our operating results and future growth may be adversely affected. our customers include large food and beverage companies, which operate in highly competitive industries and rely on continued consumer demand for their products. in recent years many of our customers have faced growing competition from mid-size regional companies and companies focused on niche-product categories driving and accelerating product innovation. consequently, the food and beverage industry is expanding and becoming increasingly decentralized. if our customers fail to adequately address the challenges pertaining to this expansion and decentralization of business, it may adversely affect their operations or financial performance, and could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our flavors business. if our global customers' market shares continue to erode and we are unable to gain market share with small and mid-sized customers in this evolved environment, our operating results and future growth could be adversely affected. we may not successfully develop and introduce new products that meet our customers' needs, which may adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to differentiate ourselves and deliver growth in line with our vision 2020 strategy largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that meet our customers' needs, and ultimately appeal to consumers. innovation is a key element of our ability to develop and introduce new products. we cannot be certain that we will be successful in achieving our innovation goals, such as the development of new molecules, new and expanded delivery systems and other technologies. we currently spend approximately 8% of our sales on research and development; however, such investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to develop products that meet our customers' specifications, can be delivered at an acceptable cost and are accepted by the targeted consumer market. furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur r&amp;d costs to the time that these r&amp;d costs may result in increased revenue. consequently, even when we win a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous customer, economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, the level of promotional support for the launch, poor performance of our third-party vendors, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands, or disruptive innovations by competitors. increasing awareness of health and wellness are driving changes in the consumer products industry, and if we are unable to react in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected. we must continually anticipate and react, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to changes in consumer preferences and demands, including changes in demand driven by increasing awareness of health and wellness and demands for transparency with respect to product ingredients. consumers, especially in developed economies such as the united states and western europe, are shifting away from products containing artificial ingredients to all natural, healthier alternatives. in addition, there has been a growing demand by consumers, non-governmental organizations and, to a lesser extent, governmental agencies to provide more transparency in product labeling and our customers have been taking steps to address this demand, including by voluntarily providing product-specific ingredients disclosure. these two trends could affect the types and volumes of our flavors and fragrances that our customers include in their product offerings. if we are unable to react to or anticipate these trends in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected. 13 we may not succeed in establishing and maintaining collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships, and such arrangements may not lead to development or commercialization of products, which may limit our ability to execute our vision 2020 strategy and adversely affect our future growth. from time to time and in line with our vision 2020 strategy, we may evaluate and enter into collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships to enhance our research and development efforts. our ability to generate revenues from such collaborations will depend on our partners' abilities and efforts to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. the process of establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. we may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements should we choose to enter into such arrangements, and the terms of the arrangements may not be favorable to us. additionally, collaborations may not lead to development or commercialization of products in the most efficient manner, or at all. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms or to successfully transition terminated collaborative agreements, it could limit our ability to execute our vision 2020 strategy and adversely affect our future growth. we have made investments in and continue to expand our business into emerging markets, which exposes us to certain risks. as part of our growth strategy, we have increased our presence in emerging markets by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets, and we expect to continue to expand our business in these markets. in addition to the currency and international operation risks described below, our operations in these markets may be subject to a variety of other risks. emerging markets typically have a consumer base with limited or fluctuating disposable income and customer demand in these markets may fluctuate accordingly. as a result, decrease in customer demand in emerging markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our growth strategy. in addition, emerging markets may have weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization or other government actions that may affect taxes, subsidies and incentive programs and the flow of goods and currency. in conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in customs and tax regimes that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate may negatively affect our results of operations. we have significant operations outside the united states, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into united states dollars at applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. the exchange rates between these currencies and the united states dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. changes in exchange rates between these local currencies and the united states dollar will affect the recorded levels of sales, profitability, assets and/or liabilities. for example, the weakening of the euro and several emerging market currencies in 2016 resulted in approximately $14 million impact on operating profit versus 2015. additionally, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows or liquidity. although we employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such hedging and risk management strategies will be effective, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. our international operations are subject to regulatory, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues, cash flows or financial position. we operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the united states, europe, africa, the middle east, latin america, and greater asia. during 2016, 76% of our net sales were to customers outside the united states and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by location, include the following: governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic and macroeconomic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that may impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates, currency fluctuations and sustainability of resources; changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, such as the continued implementation of the european union's reach regulations, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with such regulations; 14 the imposition of or changes in tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, by the united states or other countries, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors or fragrances to surrounding markets; risks and costs arising from language and cultural differences; changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, and the costs and ability to repatriate the profit that we generate in these countries; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, bribery and corruption, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained local personnel; natural disasters, pandemics or international conflicts, including terrorist acts, or national and regional labor strikes in the countries in which we operate, which could interrupt our operations or endanger our personnel; or the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights. the occurrence of any one or more of these factors could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. volatility and challenging economic conditions may adversely affect demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances and this may have a negative impact on our operating results and future growth. our flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. historically, demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances was stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and consumer needs, population growth, an expanding global middle-class and general economic growth, especially in emerging markets. the global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. while some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the ongoing global recessionary economic environment in europe has, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. in addition, growth rates in the emerging markets have moderated from previous levels. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances, or order cancellations. for example, recent challenging economic conditions in china and latin america, which culminated in the weakening of the chinese yuan, brazilian real and argentinian peso, have undermined consumer confidence and resulted in our customers throughout the emerging markets taking a more cautious approach to managing their inventory. the timing of placing of orders and the amounts of these orders are generally at our customers' discretion. customers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders with us on relatively short notice. significant cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by customers could affect our quarterly results. it is currently anticipated that these challenging economic conditions will continue during 2017. to the extent that the volatility in global economic conditions continues, our sales, profitability and overall operating results could be adversely affected. our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. competition for these employees can be intense. the ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. however, we may not be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. if we experience significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected. 15 failure to comply with environmental protection laws may cause us to close, relocate or operate one or more of our plants at reduced production levels, which could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. our business operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to protection of the environment, including air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including the need to close or relocate one or more of our production facilities, administrative, civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. if we are unable to meet production requirements, we can lose customer orders, which can adversely affect our future growth or we may be required to make incremental capital investments to ensure supply. for example, in 2015 chinese authorities notified us of compliance issues pertaining to the emission of odors from several of our plants in china and, consequently, we invested approximately $6.5 million in odor-abatement equipment at these facilities and have located a site for construction of a second flavors manufacturing facility in china, with an estimated cost of $45 million. we are also in discussions with the chinese government concerning the relocation of a second ingredients plan in china. such idling of facilities or production modifications has caused or may cause customers to seek alternate suppliers due to concerns regarding supply interruptions and these customers may not return or may order at reduced levels even once issues are remediated. if these non-compliance issues reoccur in china or occur or in any other jurisdiction, we may lose business and may be required to incur capital spending above previous expectations, close a plant, or operate a plant at significantly reduced production levels on a permanent basis, and our operating results and cash flows from operations may be adversely affected. our ongoing optimization of our manufacturing facilities may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the expected cost savings and increased efficiencies. as part of our strategy, we seek to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth and technology needs. many of our facilities are located in close proximity to our customers in order to minimize both our customers' and our own costs. however, we may not have sufficient demand to utilize all of our production capacity and may be required to ship excess products to other regions in which we operate, which will increase our costs and decrease our margins. to operate more efficiently and control costs, from time to time we also execute rationalization activities, which include manufacturing facility consolidations. for example, we are in the midst of relocating our ingredients facility in hangzhou, china, constructing a new facility in indonesia and expect to begin relocating a second ingredients facility in china. we have also initiated a study regarding our existing footprint and manufacturing capabilities that serve the indian market. the spending associated with these projects may result in capital spending above previous expectations. our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements from these activities may be affected by a number of factors and may pose significant risks, including: the risk that we may be unable to integrate successfully the relocated manufacturing operations; the risk that we may be unable to effectively reduce overhead, coordinate management and integrate and retain employees of the relocated manufacturing operations; the risk that we may face difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; potential strains on our personnel, systems and resources and diversion of attention from other priorities; and unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the relocated manufacturing operations. furthermore, our rationalization and consolidation actions may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the cost savings we expect from these actions. actual charges, costs and adjustments due to these activities may vary materially from our estimates, and these activities may require cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in excess of budgeted amounts, which could offset any such savings and other synergies and therefore could have an adverse effect on our margins. volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits. we use many different raw materials for our business, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. historically, we have experienced a considerable amount of price volatility in natural products that represent approximately half of our raw material purchases, and in 2016 we experienced increases in the prices of certain naturals, 16 including citrus and vanilla. availability and pricing of these natural products can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather, alternative land use, and other factors which we cannot control. if we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our fragrance or flavor products to offset raw material and other input cost increases, or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, we could fail to meet our cost expectations and our profits and operating results could be adversely affected. increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in volume, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, and other world events. as we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have an adverse long-term impact on our results of operations. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. however, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used for the geographic region in which we will need these materials, our margins could be adversely affected. our reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in a disruption to our business and may adversely affect our financial results. for certain raw materials, we rely on a limited number of suppliers and we may not have readily available alternatives. if we are unable to maintain our supplier arrangements and relationships and are unable to obtain the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business, or if any of our key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other financial distress, or if we are unable to identify new suppliers in response to any of these events, we could experience disruptions in production and our financial results could be adversely affected. if we are unable to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods, or fail to comply with applicable regulations, it may result in regulatory non-compliance, litigation costs, customer loss and harm to our reputation, all of which may adversely impact sales and our results of operations. the development, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are developed, manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to (i) identify current product standards, (ii) assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, (iii) monitor internal and external performance and (iv) test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance. gaps in our operational processes could adversely affect the quality of our finished products and result in a regulatory non-compliance event. if a product non-compliance event were to go undetected, it could subject us to customer claims, recalls, penalties, litigation costs and settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. as our flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients are used in many products intended for human use or consumption, these consequences would be exacerbated if we or our customer did not identify the defect before the product reaches the consumer and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. such a result could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, negative effects on consumer's health, recalls and potential consumer litigation. in addition, if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification from suppliers or other third parties, or if insurance or indemnification is not available, the liability relating to product or possible third-party claims arising from defective products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, or our customers' products that contain our ingredients, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales and customer relationships, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation. a disruption in our operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a company engaged in research and development, manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, 17 disruptions in supply chain or information systems, disruption or loss of key research or manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters, international conflicts, terrorist acts and other external factors over which we have no control. while we have research and development and manufacturing facilities throughout the world, many of these facilities are extremely specialized and certain of our facilities are the sole source of a specific ingredient or product. if our research and development activities or the manufacturing of ingredients or products were disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing these activities or reformulating these ingredients or products may be substantial, which could result in production or development delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our margins, operating results and future growth. our performance may be adversely impacted if we are not successful in managing our inventory and/or working capital balances. we evaluate our inventory balances of materials based on shelf life, expected sourcing levels, known uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity and changes in our product/sales mix. efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success, financial returns and profitability. to be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product/sales mix to meet our customers' demands, without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs associated with storing and holding other inventory adversely impact our financial results. if our buying decisions do not accurately predict sourcing levels, customer trends or our expectations about customer needs are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns or impairment charges to dispose of the excess or obsolete inventory, which can adversely impact our financial results. additionally, we believe excess inventory levels of raw materials with a short shelf life in our manufacturing facilities subjects us to the risk of increased inventory shrinkage. if we are not successful in managing our inventory balances and shrinkage, our results of and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected. we sell certain accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to unrelated financial institutions under factoring agreements that are sponsored, solely and individually, by certain customers. the cost of participating in these programs was immaterial to our results in all periods. should we choose not to participate, or if these programs were no longer available, it could reduce our cash flows from operations in the period in which the arrangement ends. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar u.s. or foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. the global nature of our business, the significance of our international revenue and our focus on emerging markets create various domestic and local regulatory challenges and subject us to risks associated with our international operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in other countries generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or for other commercial advantage. in addition, u.s. public companies are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. under the fcpa, u.s. companies may be held liable for the corrupt actions taken by directors, officers, employees, agents, or other strategic or local partners or representatives. as such, if we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the fcpa or similar legislation, governmental authorities in the united states and elsewhere could seek to impose substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. we operate or may pursue opportunities in some jurisdictions, such as china, india, brazil and africa, which pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues. in certain jurisdictions, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. from time to time, we have conducted and will conduct internal investigations of the relevant facts and circumstances, control testing and compliance reviews, and take remedial actions, when appropriate, to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable corruption and similar laws and regulations. detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of the fcpa or similar laws is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. we could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. any allegations of non-compliance with the fcpa or similar laws could have a disruptive effect on our operations in such jurisdiction over the near term, including interruptions of business or loss of third-party relationships, which may negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with the fcpa or similar laws could expose us to severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, significant fines, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation. our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. 18 we rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. we often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. from time to time, a third party may claim that we have infringed upon or misappropriated their intellectual property rights, or a third party may infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property rights. we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights against third parties or to defend ourselves from third party assertions of invalidity, infringement or misappropriation or other claims. any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such litigation could require us to obtain a license to continue to use the intellectual property rights that are the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of such intellectual property rights. any required licensing fees may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. for those intellectual property rights that are protected as trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, since we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. the ongoing trend among our customers towards more transparent labeling could further diminish our ability to effectively protect our proprietary flavor formulations. for intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights or (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. from time to time we are involved in a number of legal claims and litigation, including claims related to intellectual property, product liability, environmental matters and indirect taxes. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. in addition, if we were found liable, we could be subject to certain indemnification claims. there can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to pending and future claims or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect our pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. in the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. any future impairment of our tangible or intangible long-lived assets may adversely impact our profitability. a significant portion of our assets consists of long-lived assets, including tangible assets such as our manufacturing facilities, and intangible assets and goodwill. as of december 31, 2016, we had recorded $1.4 billion of intangible assets and goodwill including goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions. long-lived assets are subject to an impairment analysis 19 whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. additionally, goodwill is subject to an impairment test at least annually. indicators such as underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, changes in the company's strategy for its overall business or use of acquired assets, unexpected negative industry or economic trends, decreased market capitalization relative to net book values, unanticipated competitive activities, change in consumer demand, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts may signal that an asset has become impaired. to the extent any of our acquisitions do not perform as anticipated, whether due to internal or external factors, the value of such assets may be negatively affected and we may be required to record impairment charges. our results of operations and financial position in future periods could be negatively impacted should future impairments of our long-lived assets, including intangible assets or goodwill occur. changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new united states or international tax legislation, or changes in existing tax laws could expose us to additional tax liabilities that may affect our future results. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. we have and will continue to implement transfer pricing policies among our various operations located in different countries. these transfer pricing policies are a significant component of the management and compliance of our operations across international boundaries and overall financial results. many countries routinely examine transfer pricing policies of taxpayers subject to their jurisdiction, challenge transfer pricing policies aggressively where there is potential non-compliance and impose significant interest charges and penalties where non-compliance is determined. there can be no assurance that a governmental authority will not challenge these policies more aggressively in the future or, if challenged, that we will prevail. we could suffer significant costs related to one or more challenges to our transfer pricing policies. we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate, and we may be subject to assessments or audits in the future in any of the countries in which we operate. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and while we do not believe the results that follow would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, such results could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made. in addition, a number of international legislative and regulatory bodies have proposed legislation and begun investigations of the tax practices of multi-national companies and, in the european union ( eu ), the tax policies of certain eu member states. one of these efforts has been led by the oecd, an international association of 34 countries including the united states, which has finalized recommendations to revise corporate tax, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions in member countries. since 2013, the european commission ( ec ) has been investigating tax rulings granted by tax authorities in a number of eu member states with respect to specific multi-national corporations to determine whether such rulings comply with eu rules on state aid, as well as more recent investigations of the tax regimes of certain eu member states. under eu law, selective tax advantages for particular taxpayers that are not sufficiently grounded in economic realities may constitute impermissible state aid. if the ec determines that a tax ruling or tax regime violates the state aid restrictions, the tax authorities of the affected eu member state may be required to collect back taxes for the period of time covered by the ruling. in late 2015 and early 2016, the ec declared that tax rulings, related to other companies, by tax authorities in luxembourg, the netherlands and belgium did not comply with the eu state aid restrictions. if the ec were to successfully challenge tax rulings applicable to us in any of the eu member states in which we are subject to taxation, we could be exposed to increased tax liabilities. our operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations. the availability of raw materials and energy supplies fluctuate in markets throughout the world. climate change may also affect the availability and price of key raw materials, including natural products used in the manufacture of our products. in order to mitigate the risk of price increases and shortages, our procurement team has developed various sourcing strategies, including multiple suppliers, inventory management systems, various geographic suppliers and long-term agreements to mitigate risk. in addition to market forces, there are various regulatory efforts relating to climate change that may increase the cost of raw materials, particularly energy used to operate our facilities, that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 the potential government regulation of certain of our product development initiatives is uncertain, and we may be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. as part of our ingredients research program, we seek to collaborate with research institutions and companies throughout the world, including biotechnology companies. however, it is unclear whether any of our product developments will be classified as genetically modified food products subject to regulation as a biotechnology product. the manufacture of biotechnology products is subject to applicable current good manufacturing practice (cgmp) regulations as prescribed by the food and drug administration and the applicable standards prescribed by european commission and the competent authorities of european union member states and to other rules and regulations prescribed by foreign regulatory authorities. compliance with these regulations can be expensive and time consuming. such regulation could also subject us to requirements for labeling and traceability, which may cause our customers to avoid our affected products and seek our competitors' products. this may result in our inability to realize any benefit from our investment and have an adverse effect on our operating results. the united kingdom's impending departure from the european union could have an adverse effect on us. in june 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum in which a majority of voters voted to exit the european union, commonly referred to as brexit. as a result of the referendum, it is expected that the british government will commence negotiations to determine the terms of the u.k.'s withdrawal from the european union. a withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the u.k. and the european union, undermine bilateral cooperation in key geographic areas and significantly disrupt trade between the u.k. and the european union or other nations as the u.k. pursues independent trade relations. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to european union or other markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the u.k. from the european union would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. adverse consequences concerning brexit or the european union could include deterioration in global economic conditions, instability in global financial markets, political uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, or adverse changes in the cross-border agreements currently in place, any of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and 53 employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. for the year ended december 31, 2016 , the company's exposure to market risk was estimated using sensitivity analyses, which illustrate the change in the fair value of a derivative financial instrument assuming hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding twelve months. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2016 , the company's foreign currency exposures pertaining to derivative contracts exist with the euro, japanese yen, british pound, australian dollar and indonesian rupiah. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the applicable balance sheet exchange rates (primarily against the u.s. dollar), the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would increase or decrease by approximately $36 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we have also used non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries, primarily in the european union. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro, the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $7 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised of fixed to variable rate interest rate swaps based on the libor plus an interest mark up and interest rate swaps to hedge the anticipated issuance of fixed rate debt. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of one percentage point in libor, the estimated fair value of the company's interest rate swaps would change by less than $10 million. at december 31, 2016 , the fair value of our fixed rate debt was $1.4 billion. based on a hypothetical decrease of 10% in interest rates, the estimated fair value of the company's fixed debt would increase by $6 million. we purchase certain commodities, such as natural gas, electricity, petroleum based products and certain crop related items. we generally purchase these commodities based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the purchase process. in general, we do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge commodity prices.risk factors 11 risk factors. we routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. some of these risks may cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. below are material risks we have identified that could adversely affect our business. how we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors and customers react to those developments, could also affect our future results. our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer. the market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. we face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multi-national and specialized flavor, fragrance and cosmetic ingredients companies, as well as consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors, fragrances or cosmetic ingredients. in the flavors industry, we also face increasing competition from ingredient suppliers that have expanded their portfolios to include flavor offerings. some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product sub-segments, while others participate in many of our product sub-segments. in addition, some of our global competitors may have greater resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can. 11 consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. with our entry into cosmetic ingredients, we may face greater competition-related risks in this market than with our core historic flavor and fragrances businesses. competition in our business is based on innovation, product quality, regulatory compliance, pricing, quality of customer service, the support provided by marketing and application groups, and understanding of consumers. it is difficult for us to predict the timing, scale and success of our competitors' actions in these areas. in particular, the discovery and development of new flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients, protection of the company's intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are critical to our ability to effectively compete in our business. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending, and this could have an adverse impact on sales and profitability. if we are unable to provide our customers with innovative, cost-effective products that allow them to achieve their own profitability expectations, our sales and results of operations will suffer. during 2017 , our 25 largest customers accounted for 50% of our sales, and the largest customer across all end-use categories accounted for 11% to 12% of our sales for each of the last three fiscal years. loss of or a reduction in sales to our largest customer or any of our other large customers for an extended period of time could adversely affect our business or financial results. large multi-national customers, and increasingly, middle-market customers are unilaterally limiting the number of their suppliers or rationalizing the number of products that they offer to increase their margins and profitability. as part of these initiatives, these customers are creating core lists of suppliers and giving these core lists suppliers priority for new or modified products. recently, these customers are making inclusion on their core lists contingent upon a supplier providing more favorable commercial terms which may adversely affect our margins. these and other profitability initiatives being pursued by our customers reduce the market opportunity for which we compete and subject the volume and pricing of the remaining suppliers to downward pressure. to be successful in this competitive environment, we must continue to make investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers' needs, deliver products that contribute to our customers' profitability, provide effective customer service and offer competitive cost-in-use solutions to secure and maintain inclusion on certain core lists and our share of our customers' purchases. if we are unable to do so, it could adversely impact our future results of operations. we may not successfully develop and introduce new products that meet our customers' needs, which may adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to differentiate ourselves and deliver growth in line with our vision 2020 strategy largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that meet our customers' needs, and ultimately appeal to consumers. innovation is a key element of our ability to develop and introduce new products. we cannot be certain that we will be successful in achieving our innovation goals, such as the development of new molecules, new and expanded delivery systems and other technologies. we currently spend approximately 8% of our sales on research and development; however, such investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to develop products that meet our customers' specifications, are at an acceptable cost and achieve acceptance by the targeted consumer market. furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur r&amp;d costs to the time that these r&amp;d costs may result in increased revenue. consequently, even when we win a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous customer, economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, the level of promotional support for the launch, poor performance of our third-party vendors, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands, or disruptive innovations by competitors. 12 a disruption in our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a company engaged in research and development, manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we and our suppliers are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, disruption or loss of key research or manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters, international conflicts, terrorist acts and other external factors over which we have no control. while we operate research and development and manufacturing facilities throughout the world, many of these facilities are extremely specialized and certain of our facilities or certain suppliers are the sole source of a specific ingredient or product. if our research and development activities or the manufacturing of ingredients or products were disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing these activities or reformulating these ingredients or products may be substantial, which could result in production or development delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our margins, operating results and future growth. a disruption in our supply chain, including the inability to obtain ingredients and raw materials from third parties, could adversely affect our business and financial results. in connection with our manufacture of our fragrance and flavor compounds, we often rely on third party suppliers for ingredients and raw materials that are integral to our manufacture of such compounds. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. in addition, our ingredient suppliers, similar to us, are subject to the risks inherent in manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, disruption or loss of key research or manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety and environmental compliance issues, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters, international conflicts, terrorist acts and other external factors over which they have no control. these suppliers also could become insolvent or experience other financial distress. for example, a fire at the manufacturing facility of basf group ("basf"), one of our suppliers, in 2017 caused them to declare a force majeure and has resulted in a disruption of the availability of certain ingredients used in some of our fragrance and flavor compounds. if our suppliers are unable to supply us with sufficient ingredients and raw materials to meet our needs, we would need to seek alternative sources of such materials or pursue our own production of such ingredients or direct acquisition of such raw materials. however, for certain of our raw ingredients and raw materials we rely on a limited number of suppliers where there are not readily available alternatives. if we are unable to obtain or manufacture alternative sources of such ingredients or raw materials at a similar cost, we would seek to (i) reformulate our compounds and/or (2) increase pricing to reflect the higher supply cost. however, if we are not able to successfully implement any of these alternatives, we could experience disruptions in production, increased cost of sales and a corresponding decrease in gross margin or reduced sales if our competitors were able to more successfully adjust to such market disruption. such fluctuations and decrease in gross margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to successfully identify and complete sufficient acquisitions to meet our vision 2020 strategy, and even if we are able to do so, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. as part of our vision 2020 strategy, we intend to add between $500 million and $1.0 billion of sales growth through acquisitions within the flavors and fragrances industries and adjacencies. since 2015, we have completed five acquisitions which align with this strategic objective, most recently acquiring fragrance resources, a privately-held fragrance company, and powderpure, a producer capable of providing clean label flavor solutions, in 2017. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or complete acquisitions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. our recent acquisitions have required, and any similar future transactions may also require, significant efforts and expenditures, including with respect to integrating the acquired business with our historical business. we may encounter unexpected difficulties, or incur unexpected costs, in connection with acquisition activities and integration efforts, which include: diversion of management attention from managing our historical core business; potential disruption of our historical core business or of the acquired business; the strain on, and need to continue to expand our existing operational, technical, financial and administrative infrastructure; 13 challenges related to the lack of experience in operating in the geographical or product markets of the acquired business; challenges in controlling additional costs and expenses in connection with and as a result of the acquisition; difficulties in assimilating employees and corporate cultures or in integrating systems and controls; difficulties in anticipating and responding to actions that may be taken by competitors; difficulties in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; potential loss of key employees, key customers, suppliers or other partners of the acquired business; and the assumption of and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses. if any of our acquisitions do not perform as anticipated for any of the reasons noted above or otherwise, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the interruption or failure of key information technology systems or a loss of data, malicious attack or other breach of security of our information technology systems, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, subject us to increased operating costs, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation. we rely on information technology systems, including some managed by third-party providers, to conduct business and support our business processes, including product formulas, product development, sales, order processing, production, distribution, internal communications and communications with third parties throughout the world, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, tax or legal requirements, and collecting and storing customer, supplier, employee and other stakeholder information. these systems may be susceptible to disruptions or outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, failed upgrades or other similar events, or due to the poor performance of third-party providers. an effective response to disruptions will require effort and diligence on the part of our employees and third-party providers to avoid any adverse impact to our business. in addition, our systems and proprietary data stored electronically may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cybercrime, computer hacking and similar information security breaches, which in turn could result in the unauthorized release or misuse of confidential or proprietary information about our business (including, but not limited to, the trade secrets upon which we rely to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations), employees, or customers, and disrupt our operations. depending on their nature and scope, these threats could potentially lead to improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data or product non-compliance. the occurrence of any of these events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our sales, subject us to increased operating costs, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation or regulatory proceedings. if we are unable to successfully market to our expanding and decentralized flavors customer base, our operating results and future growth may be adversely affected. the industries in which our flavors customers operate are expanding and becoming increasingly decentralized. our historical customer based was primarily comprised of large food and beverage companies, which have faced, in recent years, growing competition from mid-size regional companies and companies focused on niche-product categories driving and accelerating product innovation. in connection with vision 2020, we identified serving these clients as a key element of our business strategy and invested in this strategy through the acquisition of ottens flavors and david michael. in 2017, we announced the creation of tastepoint by iff, designed to service the middle-market customer in north america which is focused on servicing customers with the can-do approach of a smaller company backed by expertise traditionally reserved for companies with a more of a global reach. however, if we are unable to successfully implement this strategy or gain market share with this growing customer base, our future growth could be adversely affected. increasing awareness of health and wellness are driving changes in the consumer products industry, and if we are unable to react in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected. we must continually anticipate and react, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to changes in consumer preferences and demands, including changes in demand driven by increasing awareness of health and wellness and demands for transparency with respect to product ingredients. consumers, especially in developed economies such as the united states and western europe, are shifting away from products containing artificial ingredients to all natural, healthier alternatives. in addition, there has been a growing demand by consumers, non-governmental organizations and, to a lesser extent, governmental agencies to provide more transparency in product labeling and our customers have been taking steps to address this demand, including by voluntarily providing product-specific ingredients disclosure. these two trends could affect the 14 types and volumes of our flavors and fragrances that our customers include in their product offerings. if we are unable to react to or anticipate these trends in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected. we may not succeed in establishing and maintaining collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships, and such arrangements may not lead to development or commercialization of products, which may limit our ability to execute our vision 2020 strategy and adversely affect our future growth. from time to time and in line with our vision 2020 strategy, we may evaluate and enter into collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships to enhance our research and development efforts. our ability to generate revenues from such collaborations will depend on our partners' abilities and efforts to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. the process of establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. we may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements should we choose to enter into such arrangements, and the terms of the arrangements may not be favorable to us. additionally, collaborations may not lead to development or commercialization of products in the most efficient manner, or at all. if we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms or to successfully transition terminated collaborative agreements, it could limit our ability to execute our vision 2020 strategy and adversely affect our future growth. we have made investments in and continue to expand our business into emerging markets, which exposes us to certain risks. as part of our growth strategy, we have increased our presence in emerging markets by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets, and we expect to continue to expand our business in these markets. in addition to the currency and international operation risks described below, our operations in these markets may be subject to a variety of other risks. emerging markets typically have a consumer base with limited or fluctuating disposable income and customer demand in these markets may fluctuate accordingly. as a result, decrease in customer demand in emerging markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our growth strategy. in addition, emerging markets may have weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization or other government actions that may affect taxes, subsidies and incentive programs and the flow of goods and currency. in conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in trade, customs and tax regimes in these markets that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate may negatively affect our results of operations. we have significant operations outside the united states, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into united states dollars at applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. the exchange rates between these currencies and the united states dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. changes in exchange rates between these local currencies and the united states dollar will affect the recorded levels of sales, profitability, assets and/or liabilities. additionally, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows or liquidity. although we employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such hedging and risk management strategies will be effective, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. our international operations are subject to regulatory, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues, cash flows or financial position. we operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the united states, europe, africa, the middle east, latin america, and greater asia. during 2017, 75% of our net sales were to customers outside the united states and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by location, include the following: governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic and macroeconomic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that may impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates, currency fluctuations and sustainability of resources; 15 changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, such as the continued implementation of the european union's reach regulations and similar regulations that are being evaluated and adopted in other markets, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with such regulations; the imposition of or changes in tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, by the united states or other countries, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors or fragrances to surrounding markets; risks and costs arising from language and cultural differences; changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, and the costs and ability to repatriate the profit that we generate in these countries; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, bribery and corruption, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained local personnel; natural disasters, pandemics or international conflicts, including terrorist acts, or national and regional labor strikes in the countries in which we operate, which could interrupt our operations or endanger our personnel; or the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights. the occurrence of any one or more of these factors could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. economic uncertainty may adversely affect demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances and this may have a negative impact on our operating results and future growth. our flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. historically, demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances was stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and consumer needs, population growth, an expanding global middle-class and general economic growth, especially in emerging markets. the global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. while some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the ongoing global recessionary economic environment in europe has, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. in addition, growth rates in the emerging markets have moderated from previous levels. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances, or order cancellations. the timing of placing of orders and the amounts of these orders are generally at our customers' discretion. customers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders with us on relatively short notice. significant cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by customers could affect our quarterly results. it is currently anticipated that these challenging economic uncertainty will continue to affect certain of our markets during 2018 which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and overall operating results. our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. furthermore, as we continue to focus on innovation, our need for scientists and other professionals will increase. competition for all these types of employees can be intense. the ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. however, we may not be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. if we experience significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected. 16 failure to comply with environmental protection laws may cause us to close, relocate or operate one or more of our plants at reduced production levels, which could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. our business operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to protection of the environment, including air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including the need to close or relocate one or more of our production facilities, administrative, civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. if we are unable to meet production requirements, we can lose customer orders, which can adversely affect our future growth or we may be required to make incremental capital investments to ensure supply. for example, in 2015 chinese authorities notified us of compliance issues pertaining to the emission of odors from several of our plants in china and, consequently, we invested approximately $6.5 million in odor-abatement equipment at these facilities and have located a site for construction of a second flavors manufacturing facility in china, with an estimated cost of $45 million. we have also recently completed negotiations with the chinese government concerning the relocation of a second fragrance facility in china. idling of facilities or production modifications has caused or may cause customers to seek alternate suppliers due to concerns regarding supply interruptions and these customers may not return or may order at reduced levels even once issues are remediated. if these non-compliance issues reoccur in china or occur or in any other jurisdiction, we may lose business and may be required to incur capital spending above previous expectations, close a plant, or operate a plant at significantly reduced production levels on a permanent basis, and our operating results and cash flows from operations may be adversely affected. our ongoing optimization of our manufacturing facilities may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the expected cost savings and increased efficiencies. as part of our strategy, we seek to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth and technology needs. many of our facilities are located in close proximity to our customers in order to minimize both our customers' and our own costs. however, we may not have sufficient demand to utilize all of our production capacity and may be required to ship excess products to other regions in which we operate, which will increase our costs and decrease our margins. to operate more efficiently and control costs, from time to time, we also execute rationalization activities, which include manufacturing facility consolidations. for example, we are in the midst of relocating our flavors facility in hangzhou, china, constructing a new facility in indonesia and expect to begin relocating a fragrance facility in china. we also recently broke ground on a new flavors and fragrances facility in india. the spending associated with these projects may result in capital spending above previous expectations. our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements from these activities may be affected by a number of factors and may pose significant risks, including: the risk that we may be unable to integrate successfully the relocated manufacturing operations; the risk that we may be unable to effectively reduce overhead, coordinate management and integrate and retain employees of the relocated manufacturing operations; the risk that we may face difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; potential strains on our personnel, systems and resources and diversion of attention from other priorities; and unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the relocated manufacturing operations. furthermore, our rationalization and consolidation actions may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the cost savings we expect from these actions. actual charges, costs and adjustments due to these activities may vary materially from our estimates, and these activities may require cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in excess of budgeted amounts, which could offset any such savings and other synergies and therefore could have an adverse effect on our margins. volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits. we use many different raw materials for our business, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. historically, we have experienced a considerable amount of price volatility in natural products that represent approximately half of our raw material purchases, and we expect this volatility to continue in the near future. for example, during and in 2017 we experienced increases in the prices of certain naturals, including citrus and vanilla. availability and pricing of these natural products can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather, alternative land use, and other factors which we cannot control. 17 if we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our fragrance or flavor products to offset raw material and other input cost increases, or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, we could fail to meet our cost expectations and our profits and operating results could be adversely affected. increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in volume, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, and other world events. as we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have an adverse long-term impact on our results of operations. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. however, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used for the geographic region in which we will need these materials, our margins could be adversely affected. if we are unable to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods, or fail to comply with applicable regulations, it may result in regulatory non-compliance, litigation costs, customer loss and harm to our reputation, all of which may adversely impact sales and our results of operations. the development, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are developed, manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to (i) identify current product standards, (ii) assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, (iii) monitor internal and external performance and (iv) test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance. gaps in our operational processes or those of our suppliers could adversely affect the quality of our finished products, subject us to a recall and result in a regulatory non-compliance event. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged, and certain of our raw materials could be blocked from entering a country if they are subject to import alerts. product non-compliance events could subject us to customer claims, recalls, penalties, litigation costs and settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. as our flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients are used in many products intended for human use or consumption, these consequences would be exacerbated if we or our customer did not identify the defect before the product reaches the consumer and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. such a result could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, negative effects on consumer's health, recalls and potential consumer litigation. in addition, if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification from suppliers or other third parties, or if insurance or indemnification is not available, the liability relating to product or possible third-party claims arising from defective products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, or our customers' products that contain our ingredients, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales and customer relationships, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation. our performance may be adversely impacted if we are not successful in managing our inventory and/or working capital balances. we evaluate our inventory balances of materials based on shelf life, expected sourcing levels, known uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity and changes in our product/sales mix. efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success, financial returns and profitability. to be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product/sales mix to meet our customers' demands, without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs associated with storing and holding other inventory adversely impact our financial results. if our buying decisions do not accurately predict sourcing levels, customer trends or our expectations about customer needs are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns or impairment charges to dispose of the excess or obsolete inventory, which can adversely impact our financial results. additionally, we believe excess inventory levels of raw materials with a short shelf life in our manufacturing facilities subjects us to the risk of increased inventory shrinkage. if we are not successful in managing our inventory balances and shrinkage, our results of and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected. 18 we sell certain accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to unrelated financial institutions under factoring agreements that are sponsored, solely and individually, by certain customers. the cost of participating in these programs was immaterial to our results in all periods. should we choose not to participate, or if these programs were no longer available, it could reduce our cash flows from operations in the period in which the arrangement ends. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar u.s. or foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. the global nature of our business, the significance of our international revenue and our focus on emerging markets create various domestic and local regulatory challenges and subject us to risks associated with our international operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in other countries generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or for other commercial advantage. in addition, u.s. public companies are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. under the fcpa, u.s. companies may be held liable for the corrupt actions taken by directors, officers, employees, agents, or other strategic or local partners or representatives. as such, if we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the fcpa or similar legislation, governmental authorities in the united states and elsewhere could seek to impose substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. we operate or may pursue opportunities in some jurisdictions, such as china, india, brazil and africa, which pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues. in certain jurisdictions, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. from time to time, we have conducted and will conduct internal investigations of the relevant facts and circumstances, control testing and compliance reviews, and take remedial actions, when appropriate, to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable corruption and similar laws and regulations. detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of the fcpa or similar laws is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. we could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. any allegations of non-compliance with the fcpa or similar laws could have a disruptive effect on our operations in such jurisdiction over the near term, including interruptions of business or loss of third-party relationships, which may negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with the fcpa or similar laws could expose us to severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, significant fines, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation. our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. we often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. from time to time, a third party may claim that we have infringed upon or misappropriated their intellectual property rights, or a third party may infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property rights. we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights against third parties or to defend ourselves from third party assertions of invalidity, infringement or misappropriation or other claims. any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such litigation could require us to obtain a license to continue to use the intellectual property rights that are the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of such intellectual property rights. any required licensing fees may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. for those intellectual property rights that are protected as trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, since we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. the ongoing trend among our customers towards more transparent labeling could further diminish our ability to effectively protect our proprietary flavor formulations. for intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights or (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. 19 from time to time we are involved in a number of legal claims and litigation, including claims related to intellectual property, product liability, environmental matters and indirect taxes. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. in addition, if we were found liable, we could be subject to certain indemnification claims. there can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to pending and future claims or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect our pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. in the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. any future impairment of our tangible or intangible long-lived assets may adversely impact our profitability. a significant portion of our assets consists of long-lived assets, including tangible assets such as our manufacturing facilities, and intangible assets and goodwill. as of december 31, 2017 , we had recorded approximately $1.6 billion of intangible assets and goodwill including goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions. long-lived assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. additionally, goodwill is subject to an impairment test at least annually. indicators such as under performance relative to historical or projected future operating results, changes in the company's strategy for its overall business or use of acquired assets, unexpected negative industry or economic trends, decreased market capitalization relative to net book values, unanticipated competitive activities, change in consumer demand, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts may signal that an asset has become impaired. to the extent any of our acquisitions do not perform as anticipated, whether due to internal or external factors, the value of such assets may be negatively affected and we may be required to record impairment charges. our results of operations and financial position in future periods could be negatively impacted should future impairments of our long-lived assets, including intangible assets or goodwill occur. changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new united states or international tax legislation, or changes in existing tax laws could expose us to additional tax liabilities that may affect our future results. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. we have and will continue to implement transfer pricing policies among our various operations located in different countries. these transfer pricing policies are a significant component of the management and compliance of our operations across international boundaries and overall financial results. many countries routinely examine transfer pricing policies of taxpayers subject to their jurisdiction, challenge transfer pricing policies aggressively where there is potential non-compliance and impose significant interest charges and penalties where non-compliance is determined. there can be no assurance that a governmental authority will not challenge these policies more aggressively in the future or, if challenged, that we will prevail. we could suffer significant costs related to one or more challenges to our transfer pricing policies. 20 we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate, and we may be subject to assessments or audits in the future in any of the countries in which we operate. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and while we do not believe the results that follow would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, such results could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made. in addition, a number of international legislative and regulatory bodies have proposed legislation and begun investigations of the tax practices of multi-national companies and, in the european union ( eu ), the tax policies of certain eu member states. one of these efforts has been led by the oecd, an international association of 34 countries including the united states, which has finalized recommendations to revise corporate tax, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions in member countries. since 2013, the european commission ( ec ) has been investigating tax rulings granted by tax authorities in a number of eu member states with respect to specific multi-national corporations to determine whether such rulings comply with eu rules on state aid, as well as more recent investigations of the tax regimes of certain eu member states. under eu law, selective tax advantages for particular taxpayers that are not sufficiently grounded in economic realities may constitute impermissible state aid. if the ec determines that a tax ruling or tax regime violates the state aid restrictions, the tax authorities of the affected eu member state may be required to collect back taxes for the period of time covered by the ruling. in late 2015 and early 2016, the ec declared that tax rulings, related to other companies, by tax authorities in luxembourg, the netherlands and belgium did not comply with the eu state aid restrictions. if the ec were to successfully challenge tax rulings applicable to us in any of the eu member states in which we are subject to taxation, we could be exposed to increased tax liabilities. the recently adopted us tax legislation may result in additional tax liabilities that may affect our future results and profitability. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) that significantly revises the u.s. tax code effective january 1, 2018 by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat 21%, limiting deductibility of interest expense and performance based incentive compensation, transitioning to a territorial system and creating new taxes associated with global operations. the tax act impacted our consolidated results of operations during the 2017 fourth quarter and is expected to continue to impact our consolidated results of operations in future periods. in particular, the transition to the new territorial tax system required us to record a one-time tax or toll charge which resulted in a provisional incremental tax expense of $100.6 million principally related to previously unremitted earnings on non-u.s. subsidiaries. the cash portion of the "toll charge" will be payable in installments over 8 years beginning in 2018. in addition, the reduction of the u.s. corporate tax rate resulted in a provisional net deferred tax expense of $38.6 million related to the remeasurement of net deferred tax assets as a result of the reduction in the corporate income tax rate. given the significant complexity of the tax act, anticipated guidance from the u.s. treasury about implementing the tax act and the potential for additional guidance from the sec or the fasb, the company's provisional charge may be adjusted during 2018 and is expected to be finalized no later than the fourth quarter of 2018. other provisions of the tax act that impact future tax years are still being assessed. any material revisions in the company's computations could adversely affect its cash flows and results of operations. in future periods, we expect that our effective tax rate will be impacted by the lower u.s. corporate tax rate that will initially be offset by the elimination of the deductibility of performance based incentive compensation, and other provisions of the tax act that may impact us prospectively. however, the ultimate impact of the tax act will depend on additional regulatory or accounting guidance that may be issued with respect to the tax act and any operating and structural changes that we may undertake to permit us to benefit from the new, lower u.s. tax rate prospectively. this could adversely affect our results of operations. the potential government regulation of certain of our product development initiatives is uncertain, and we may be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. as part of our ingredients research program, we seek to collaborate with research institutions and companies throughout the world, including biotechnology companies. however, it is unclear whether any of our product developments will be classified as genetically modified food products subject to regulation as a biotechnology product. the manufacture of biotechnology products is subject to applicable current good manufacturing practice (cgmp) regulations as prescribed by the food and drug administration and the applicable standards prescribed by european commission and the competent authorities of european union member states and to other rules and regulations prescribed by foreign regulatory authorities. compliance with these regulations can be expensive and time consuming. such regulation could also subject us to requirements for labeling and traceability, which may cause our customers to avoid our affected products and seek our 21 competitors' products. this may result in our inability to realize any benefit from our investment and have an adverse effect on our operating results. the united kingdom's expected departure from the european union in 2019 could have an adverse effect on us. in june 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum in which a majority of voters voted to exit the european union, commonly referred to as brexit and negotiations are underway to determine the terms of the u.k.'s withdrawal from the european union. a withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the u.k. and the european union, undermine bilateral cooperation in key geographic areas and significantly disrupt trade between the u.k. and the european union or other nations as the u.k. pursues independent trade relations. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to european union or other markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the u.k. from the european union would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. adverse consequences concerning brexit or the european union could include deterioration in global economic conditions, instability in global financial markets, political uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, or adverse changes in the cross-border agreements currently in place, any of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , the company's exposure to market risk was estimated using sensitivity analyses, which illustrate the change in the fair value of a derivative financial instrument assuming hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding twelve months. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2017 , the company's foreign currency exposures pertaining to derivative contracts exist with the euro, japanese yen, british pound, australian dollar and indonesian rupiah. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the applicable balance sheet exchange rates (primarily against the u.s. dollar), the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would increase or decrease by approximately $70 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we have also used non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries, primarily in the european union. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro, the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $2 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised of fixed to variable rate interest rate swaps based on the libor plus an interest mark up and interest rate swaps to hedge the anticipated issuance of fixed rate debt. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of one percentage point in libor, the estimated fair value of the company's interest rate swaps would change by less than $4 million. at december 31, 2017 , the fair value of our fixed rate debt was 1.8 billion . based on a hypothetical decrease of 10% in interest rates, the estimated fair value of the company's fixed debt would increase by $27 million. we purchase certain commodities, such as natural gas, electricity, petroleum based products and certain crop related items. we generally purchase these commodities based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the purchase process. in general, we do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge commodity prices.risk factors 13 risk factors. we routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. some of these risks may cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. below are material risks we have identified that could adversely affect our business. how we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors and customers react to those developments, could also affect our future results we may not realize the benefits anticipated from the frutarom acquisition, which could adversely affect our business. part of our growth strategy has included growth through acquisitions within the fragrance, flavors, natural ingredient industries and adjacencies. the frutarom acquisition was our most significant acquisition and brings a significantly different customer base and new adjacent product categories to our business. our expectations about the benefits of this acquisition are based on projections and assumptions about our combined businesses which depend on (i) our ability to maintain the current frutarom business, (ii) our ability to achieve the anticipated synergies and (iii) our ability to cross-sell the combined company's products. we may encounter significant challenges achieving these anticipated benefits, including the following: potential disruption of, or reduced growth in, our historical core businesses, due to diversion of management attention from our historical core business and uncertainty with our current customer and supplier relationships; challenges arising from the expansion of our product offerings into adjacencies with which we have limited experience, including functional foods and nutraceuticals; coordinating and integrating research and development teams across technologies and products to enhance product development while reducing costs; consolidating and integrating corporate, information technology, finance and administrative infrastructures, and integrating and harmonizing business systems, which may be more difficult than anticipated due to the significant number of acquisitions completed by frutarom over the past few years; coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position our capabilities and the direction of product development; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, cross-selling opportunities and growth prospects from combining frutarom's business with our business; the increased scale, regulatory compliance costs and complexity of our operations; retaining key employees, suppliers and other partners; retaining and efficiently managing frutarom's significantly expanded and decentralized customer base; difficulties in anticipating and responding to actions that may be taken by competitors in response to the transaction; and the assumption of and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of frutarom. 13 in addition, our anticipated benefits of the acquisition of frutarom contemplate significant cost-saving synergies, which we expect to arise principally from facility consolidation and rationalization of supply chain relationships. even if we are able to successfully integrate the operations of frutarom with ours, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition if we are unable to identify and implement the anticipated cost savings or if the actions taken to implement such cost-savings have unintended consequences on our other business operations. if we do not successfully manage these issues and the other challenges inherent in integrating frutarom, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, we could incur unanticipated expenses and charges and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. the frutarom acquisition resulted, and may continue to result, in significant charges or other liabilities that could adversely affect the financial results of the combined company. our financial results, following the acquisition of frutarom, were adversely affected by cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges incurred in connection with the acquisition. we expect these types of charges to continue as a result of the integration of the business and operations of frutarom. as a result of the acquisition, we assumed all of frutarom's liabilities, including unknown and contingent liabilities. due to the nature of the transaction and the characteristics of frutarom, our ability to conduct extensive due diligence was limited and we may subsequently identify additional obligations, including those that frutarom assumed in its prior acquisitions, during the measurement period. prior to our acquisition, frutarom completed 47 acquisitions since 2011, including 22 since the beginning of 2016. our ability to accurately identify and assess the magnitude of the liabilities assumed by frutarom in these acquisitions was limited by, among other things, the information available to us and frutarom and the limited operating experience that frutarom has with these acquired entities. if we are not able to completely assess the scope of these liabilities or if these liabilities are neither probable nor estimable at this time, our future financial results could be adversely affected by unanticipated reserves or charges, unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting charges, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. our incurrence of additional debt to pay the cash portion of the frutarom consideration increased our financial leverage and could adversely affect our future cash flows and cost of capital. in connection with the acquisition of frutarom, we borrowed approximately $3.3 billion of additional debt, consisting of $2.8 billion of senior unsecured notes, $350.0 million in term loans and $139.5 million of senior unsecured amortizing notes associated with the tangible equity units. incurring this new debt significantly increased our leverage. there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this new debt could adversely affect our cash flows, our operating results or our ability to return capital to our shareholders through dividends or stock repurchases. furthermore, our degree of leverage could adversely affect our future credit ratings. if we are unable to maintain or improve our current investment grade rating, it could adversely affect our future cost of funding, liquidity and access to capital markets. in addition, our current level of leverage could increase our vulnerability to sustained, adverse macroeconomic weakness, limit our ability to obtain further financing, and our ability to pursue certain operational and strategic opportunities, including large acquisitions. if we are unable to successfully market to our expanded and decentralized taste and frutarom customer base, our operating results and future growth may be adversely affected. as a result of our acquisition of frutarom, the number of our customers significantly increased and became more decentralized. our historical customer base was primarily comprised of large food, beverage and consumer products companies. these customers have faced, in recent years, growing competition from mid- and small-sized regional companies and companies focused on niche-product categories. in connection with vision 2020, we identified serving these small and mid-sized clients as a key element of our business strategy and invested in this strategy through the introduction of tastepoint by iff in the us, which resulted from the acquisitions of ottens flavors and david michael. with the frutarom acquisition, we have significantly expanded our customer base, by approximately 39,000 customers, composed principally of globally-located small and mid-sized companies. this substantial increase in our customer base will require us to adjust our corporate, information technology, finance and administrative infrastructures and corporate sales and customer culture. further, we may experience difficulty managing the growth of a portfolio of customers that is diverse both with respect to the types of services they will require and the infrastructure required to deliver our products. however, if we are unable to successfully implement this strategy or gain market share with this growing customer base, our future growth could be adversely affected. 14 our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer. the market for flavors, fragrances and natural ingredients is highly competitive. we face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multi-national and specialized flavor, fragrance and cosmetic ingredients companies, as well as consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors, fragrances or cosmetic ingredients. in the flavors industry, we also face increasing competition from ingredient suppliers that have expanded their portfolios to include flavor offerings. some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product sub-segments, while others participate in many of our product sub-segments. in addition, some of our global competitors may have greater resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can. consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. as we continue to enter into adjacent markets, such as cosmetic ingredients and, recently through the frutarom acquisition, functional foods, specialty fine ingredients and health and wellness products, we may face greater competition-related risks in these markets than with our core historic flavor and fragrances businesses. for example, the specialty fine ingredients market is more price sensitive than the flavors market and is characterized by relatively lower profit margins. some fine ingredients products manufactured by frutarom are less unique and more replaceable by competitors' products. there is no assurance that operating margins will not erode in the future, which could substantially impact our business, operating results and financial condition. competition in our business is based on innovation, product quality, regulatory compliance, pricing, quality of customer service, the support provided by marketing and application groups, and understanding of consumers. it is difficult for us to predict the timing, scale and success of our competitors' actions in these areas. in particular, the discovery and development of new flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients, protection of our intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are critical to our ability to effectively compete in our business. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending, and this could have an adverse impact on sales and profitability. if we are unable to provide our customers with innovative, cost-effective products that allow them to achieve their own profitability expectations, our sales and results of operations will suffer. during 2018, our 25 largest customers accounted for 47% of our sales, and the largest customer across all end-use categories accounted for 9% to 12 % of our sales for each of the last three fiscal years. loss of or a reduction in sales to our largest customer or any of our other large customers for an extended period of time could adversely affect our business or financial results. large multi-national customers, and increasingly, middle-market customers are unilaterally limiting the number of their suppliers or rationalizing the number of products that they offer to increase their margins and profitability. as part of these initiatives, these customers are creating core lists of suppliers and giving these core lists suppliers priority for new or modified products. recently, these customers are making inclusion on their core lists contingent upon a supplier providing more favorable commercial terms, including rebates, which could adversely affect our margins. we must either offer competitive cost-in-use solutions to secure and maintain inclusion on these core lists or seek to manage the relationship without being on the core-list . if we chose not to pursue core-list status due to profitability concerns or if we are unable to obtain core-list status our ability to maintain our share of the customers' future purchases could be adversely affected and therefore our future results of operations. furthermore, consolidations amongst our customers have resulted in larger and more sophisticated customers with greater buying power and additional negotiating strength. these and other profitability initiatives being pursued by our customers reduce the market opportunity for which we compete and subject the volume and pricing of the remaining suppliers to downward pressure. to be successful in this competitive environment, we must continue to make investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers' needs, deliver products that contribute to our customers' profitability, and provide effective customer service. we may not successfully develop and introduce new products that meet our customers' needs, which may adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to differentiate ourselves and deliver growth in line with our vision 2020 strategy largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that meet our customers' needs, and ultimately appeal to consumers. innovation is a key element of our ability to develop and introduce new products. we cannot be certain that we will be successful in achieving our innovation goals, such as the development of new molecules, new and 15 expanded delivery systems and other technologies. we currently spend approximately 8% of our sales on research and development; however, such investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to develop products that meet our customers' specifications, are at an acceptable cost and achieve acceptance by the targeted consumer market. furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur r&amp;d costs to the time that these r&amp;d costs may result in increased revenue. consequently, even when we win a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous customer, economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, the level of promotional support for the launch, poor performance of our third-party vendors, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands, or disruptive innovations by competitors. a disruption in our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a company engaged in the global development, manufacture and distribution of products, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, product quality control issues, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters, international conflicts, terrorist acts and other external factors over which we have no control. while we operate research and development, manufacturing and distribution facilities throughout the world, many of these facilities are extremely specialized and certain of our r&amp;d or creative laboratories facilities are uniquely situated to support our research and development efforts while certain of our manufacturing facilities are the sole location where a specific ingredient or product is produced. if our research and development activities or the manufacturing of ingredients or products were disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing these activities or reformulating these ingredients or products may be substantial, which could result in production or development delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our margins, operating results and future growth. a disruption in our supply chain, including the inability to obtain ingredients and raw materials from third parties, could adversely affect our business and financial results. in connection with our manufacture of our fragrance and flavor compounds, we often rely on third party suppliers for ingredients and raw materials that are integral to our manufacture of such compounds. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, climate change, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. our natural products and ingredients may also be subject to import alerts or specific country regulations that would impair our ability to obtain sufficient quantity at the relevant manufacturing facility. in addition, our ingredient suppliers, similar to us, are subject to the risks inherent in manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, disruption or loss of key research or manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety and environmental compliance issues, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters, international conflicts, terrorist acts and other external factors over which they have no control. these suppliers also could become insolvent or experience other financial distress. for example, a fire at the manufacturing facility of basf group ( basf ), one of our suppliers, in 2017 caused them to declare a force majeure and has resulted in a disruption of the availability of certain ingredients used in some of our fragrance and flavor compounds. if our suppliers are unable to supply us with sufficient ingredients and raw materials to meet our needs, we would need to seek alternative sources of such materials or pursue our own production of such ingredients or direct acquisition of such raw materials. however, for certain of our raw ingredients and raw materials we rely on a limited number of suppliers where there are not readily available alternatives. if we are unable to obtain or manufacture alternative sources of such ingredients or raw materials at a similar cost, we would seek to (i) reformulate our compounds and/or (ii) increase pricing to reflect the higher supply cost. however, if we are not able to successfully implement any of these alternatives, we could experience disruptions in production, increased cost of sales and a corresponding decrease in gross margin or reduced sales if our competitors were able to more successfully adjust to such market disruption. such fluctuations and decrease in gross margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits. we use many different raw materials for our business, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. historically, we have experienced a considerable amount of price volatility in natural products that represent approximately half of our raw material purchases, and we expect this volatility to continue in the near future. for example, during and in 2018, we experienced increases in the prices of certain naturals, including citrus. in addition, because frutarom's number of natural product offerings is substantial, this risk may be exacerbated. availability and pricing of these natural products can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather, climate change, alternative land use, and other factors which we cannot control. 16 if we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our flavor or fragrance compounds or natural ingredient products to offset raw material and other input cost increases, or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, we could fail to meet our cost expectations and our profits and operating results could be adversely affected. increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in volume, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, and other world events. as we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have an adverse long-term impact on our results of operations. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. however, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used for the geographic region in which we will need these materials, our margins could be adversely affected. if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements and industry standards, including those regarding product safety, quality, efficacy and environmental impact, we could incur significant costs and suffer reputational harm which could adversely affect results of operations. the development, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are developed, manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies or contractually by our customers, including requirements concerning product safety, quality and efficacy, environmental impacts (including packaging, energy and water use and waste management) and other sustainability or similar issues. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to (i) identify current product standards, (ii) assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, (iii) monitor internal and external performance and (iv) test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance. gaps in our operational processes or those of our suppliers can result in products that do not meet our quality control standards or industry standards or fail to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements, which in turn can result in finished consumer goods that do not comply with these standards and requirements. products that are mislabeled, contaminated or damaged could result in a regulatory non-compliance event or even a product recall by the fda or a similar foreign agency. our contracts often require us to indemnify our customers for the costs associated with a product non-compliance event, including penalties, costs and settlements arising from litigation, remediation costs or loss of sales. as our flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients are used in many products intended for human use or consumption, these consequences would be exacerbated if we or our customer did not identify the defect before the product reaches the consumer and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. such a result could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, negative effects on consumer's health, recalls and potential consumer litigation. in addition, if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification from suppliers or other third parties, or if insurance or indemnification is not available, the liability relating to product or possible third-party claims arising from mislabeled, contaminated or damaged products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, or our customers' products that contain our ingredients, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales and customer relationships, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation. the interruption or failure of key information technology systems or a loss of data, malicious attack or other breach of security of our information technology systems, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, subject us to increased operating costs, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation. we rely on information technology systems, including some managed by third-party providers, to conduct business and support our business processes, including product formulas, product development, sales, order processing, production, distribution, internal communications and communications with third parties throughout the world, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, tax or legal requirements, and collecting and storing customer, supplier, employee and other stakeholder information. the frutarom acquisition may also pose additional burden on our information technology systems as we integrate our information and financial systems into our newly acquired facilities. these systems may be susceptible to disruptions or outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, failed upgrades or other similar events, or due to the poor performance of third-party 17 providers. an effective response to disruptions will require effort and diligence on the part of our employees and third-party providers to avoid any adverse impact to our business. in addition, our systems and proprietary data stored electronically may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cybercrime, computer hacking and similar information security breaches, which in turn could result in the unauthorized release or misuse of confidential or proprietary information about our business (including, but not limited to, the trade secrets upon which we rely to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations), employees, or customers, and disrupt our operations. depending on their nature and scope, these threats could potentially lead to improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data or product non-compliance. the occurrence of any of these events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our sales, subject us to increased operating costs, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation or regulatory proceedings. increasing awareness of health and wellness are driving changes in the consumer products industry, and if we are unable to react in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected. we must continually anticipate and react, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to changes in consumer preferences and demands, including changes in demand driven by increasing awareness of health and wellness and demands for transparency with respect to product ingredients. consumers, especially in developed economies such as the u.s. and western europe, are shifting away from products containing artificial ingredients to all natural, healthier alternatives. in addition, there has been a growing demand by consumers, non-governmental organizations and, to a lesser extent, governmental agencies to provide more transparency in product labeling and our customers have been taking steps to address this demand, including by voluntarily providing product-specific ingredients disclosure. these two trends could affect the types and volumes of our ingredients and compounds that our customers include in their consumer product offerings. if we are unable to react to or anticipate these trends in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully establish and manage collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships that lead to development or commercialization of products, it could adversely affect our growth. from time to time, we evaluate and enter into collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships to enhance our research and development efforts or expand our materials portfolio or technology. the process of establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships is difficult and time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. we may not be able to successfully negotiate these arrangements or the terms of the arrangements may not be as favorable as anticipated. furthermore, our ability to generate revenues from such collaborations will depend on our partners' abilities and efforts to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements and these collaborations may not lead to development or commercialization of products in the most efficient manner, or at all. in addition, from time to time, frutarom has acquired, and we intend to continue to acquire, only a majority interest in companies and providing earnouts for the former owners and the ability for us to acquire the minority interests at a future date at an established price. these investments may have additional risks and may not be as efficient as other operations as we may have fiduciary or contractual obligations to the minority investors. if we are unable to successfully establish and manage these collaborative relationships and majority investments it could adversely affect our future growth. we have made investments in and continue to expand our business into emerging markets, which exposes us to certain risks. as part of our growth strategy, we have increased our presence in emerging markets by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets, and we expect to continue to expand our business in these markets. with our combination with frutarom, who also had a significant presence in emerging markets, our business in these markets has meaningfully grown. in addition to the currency and international risks described below, our operations in these markets may be subject to a variety of other risks. emerging markets typically have a consumer base with limited or fluctuating disposable income and customer demand in these markets may fluctuate accordingly. as a result, decrease in customer demand in emerging markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our growth strategy. further, there is no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, distribute or sell will be accepted or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences, consumer preferences or otherwise. in addition, emerging markets may have weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization or other government actions that may affect taxes, subsidies and incentive programs and the flow of goods and currency. in conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in trade, customs and tax regimes in these markets. if we are unable to expand our business in developing and emerging 18 markets, effectively operate, or manage the risks associated with operating in these markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect from our investments in these markets, our operating results and future growth could be adversely affected. the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate may negatively affect our results of operations. we have significant operations outside the us, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. for example, as of july 1, 2018, we concluded that argentina's economy is highly inflationary under us gaap, as it has experienced cumulative inflation of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. while our current operations in argentina represent less than 3% of our consolidated net sales and less than 1% of our consolidated total assets, continuing inflation in argentina could adversely affect our profitability in a specific period. with our increased operations in emerging markets arising from our frutarom acquisition, these risks will become exacerbated. changes in exchange rates between these local currencies and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded levels of sales, profitability, assets and/or liabilities. additionally, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows or liquidity. although we employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such hedging and risk management strategies will be effective, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. our international operations are subject to regulatory, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues, cash flows or financial position. we operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the us, europe, africa, the middle east, latin america, israel and greater asia. during 2018, 75% of our net sales and, as a result of our acquisition of frutarom, 80% of our combined net sales were to customers outside the u.s. and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by location, include the following: governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic and macroeconomic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that may impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates, currency fluctuations and sustainability of resources; changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, such as the continued implementation of the european union's reach regulations and similar regulations that are being evaluated and adopted in other markets, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with such regulations; increased environmental, health and safety regulations or the loss of necessary environmental permits in certain countries, arising from growing consumer sensitivity concerning the inclusion of flavor additives in food products and the fact that regulators perceive nutraceuticals, medical food and functional food products as having medicinal attributes; the imposition of or changes in tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, by the u.s. or other countries, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors and fragrance products to surrounding markets; risks and costs arising from language and cultural differences; changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, and the costs and ability to repatriate the profit that we generate in these countries; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, bribery and corruption, anti-american sentiment, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained local personnel; natural disasters, pandemics or international conflicts, including terrorist acts, or national and regional labor strikes in the countries in which we operate, which could interrupt our operations or endanger our personnel; or the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights. 19 the occurrence of any one or more of these factors could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. economic uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products which may have a negative impact on our operating results and future growth. our flavors and fragrance compounds and our fragrance, cosmetic active and functional food ingredients are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. historically, demand for consumer products using these compounds and ingredients was stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and consumer needs, population growth, an expanding global middle-class and general economic growth, especially in emerging markets. the global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. while some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the predictions surrounding the global recessionary economic environment in europe has, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. in addition, growth rates in the emerging markets have moderated from previous levels. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances compounds or ingredients, or order cancellations. the timing of placing of orders and the amounts of these orders are generally at our customers' discretion. customers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders with us on relatively short notice. significant cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by customers could affect our quarterly results. it is currently anticipated that these challenging economic uncertainties will continue to affect certain of our markets during 2019 which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and overall operating results. our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers, scientists and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. furthermore, as we continue to focus on innovation, our need for scientists and other professionals will increase. an important factor in our ability to realize our anticipated benefits from the frutarom acquisition is our ability to retain key employees at frutarom. the ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. competition for employees can be intense and if we are unable to successfully integrate, motivate and reward the acquired frutarom employees or our current employees in our combined company, we may not be able to retain them. however, if we are unable to retain these employees or attract new employees in the future, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected. failure to comply with environmental protection laws may cause us to close, relocate or operate one or more of our plants at reduced production levels, and expose us to civil or criminal liability, which could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. our business operations and properties make use of, manufacture, sell, and distribute substances that are sometimes considered hazardous and are therefore subject to extensive and increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to protection of the environment, including air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including the need to close or relocate one or more of our production facilities, administrative, civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. if we are unable to meet production requirements, we can lose customer orders, which can adversely affect our future growth or we may be required to make incremental capital investments to ensure supply. for example, in 2015 chinese authorities notified us of compliance issues pertaining to the emission of odors from several of our plants in china and, consequently, we invested approximately $6.5 million in odor-abatement equipment at these facilities and have built a second flavors manufacturing facility in china, with an estimated cost of $45 million. we have also recently completed negotiations with the chinese government concerning the relocation of a second fragrance facility in china. idling of facilities or production modifications has caused or may cause customers to seek alternate suppliers due to concerns regarding supply interruptions and these customers may not return or may order at reduced levels even once issues are remediated. if these non-compliance issues reoccur in china or occur or in any other jurisdiction, we may lose business and may be required to incur capital spending above previous expectations, close a plant, or operate a plant at significantly reduced production levels on a permanent basis, and our operating results and cash flows from operations may be adversely affected. 20 our ongoing optimization of our manufacturing facilities may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the expected cost savings and increased efficiencies. as part of our ongoing strategy, we seek to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth and technology needs. for example, we are in the process of relocating one of our fragrance ingredients facilities in china, constructing new facilities in india and indonesia, and other capital projects required to integrate our recently acquired frutarom business. the spending associated with these projects may result in capital spending above previous expectations, which could adversely affect our cash flows. in addition, an integral component of our synergy strategy for the frutarom acquisition is focused on rationalizing the aggregate number of sites that the combined company operates. our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and synergies from these activities may be affected by various factors and may pose significant risks, including: the risk that we may be unable to successfully and efficiently manufacture the relocated product lines at a different manufacturing facility; the risk that we may be unable to effectively reduce overhead and integrate and retain employees of the relocated operations; the risk that we may face difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; the risk that we may face integrating newly acquired manufacturing, distribution and technology facilities; potential strains on our personnel, systems and resources and diversion of attention from other priorities; and unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the relocated operations. furthermore, actual charges, costs and adjustments due to these activities may vary materially from our estimates, and these activities may require cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in excess of budgeted amounts, which could offset any such savings and other synergies and therefore could have an adverse effect on our margins. our performance may be adversely impacted if we are not successful in managing our inventory and/or working capital balances. we evaluate our inventory balances of materials based on shelf life, expected sourcing levels, known uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity and changes in our product/sales mix. efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success, financial returns and profitability. to be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product/sales mix to meet our customers' demands, without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs associated with storing and holding other inventory adversely impact our financial results. if our buying decisions do not accurately predict sourcing levels, customer trends or our expectations about customer needs are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns or impairment charges to dispose of the excess or obsolete inventory, which can adversely impact our financial results. additionally, we believe excess inventory levels of raw materials with a short shelf life in our manufacturing facilities subjects us to the risk of increased inventory shrinkage. if we are not successful in managing our inventory balances and shrinkage, our results of and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected. we sell certain accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to unrelated financial institutions under factoring agreements that are sponsored, solely and individually, by certain customers. the cost of participating in these programs was immaterial to our results in all periods. should we choose not to participate, or if these programs were no longer available, it could reduce our cash flows from operations in the period in which the arrangement ends. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar u.s. or foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. the global nature of our business, the significance of our international revenue and our focus on emerging markets create various domestic and local regulatory challenges and subject us to risks associated with our international operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in other countries generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or for other commercial advantage. in addition, u.s. public companies are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. under the fcpa, u.s. companies may be held liable for the corrupt actions taken by directors, officers, employees, 21 agents, or other strategic or local partners or representatives. as such, if we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the fcpa or similar legislation, governmental authorities in the u.s. and elsewhere could seek to impose substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. we operate or may pursue opportunities in some jurisdictions, such as china, india, brazil, russia and africa, which pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues. in certain jurisdictions, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. from time to time, we have conducted and will conduct internal investigations of the relevant facts and circumstances, control testing and compliance reviews, and take remedial actions, when appropriate, to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable corruption and similar laws and regulations. in addition, frutarom grew through rapid acquisition and, as part of our integration efforts, we will be seeking to implement our anti-corruption and similar policies throughout a number of those acquired companies, many of which were not previously subject to these u.s. laws. detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of the fcpa or similar laws is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. we could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. any allegations of non-compliance with the fcpa or similar laws could have a disruptive effect on our operations in such jurisdiction over the near term, including interruptions of business or loss of third-party relationships, which may negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with the fcpa or similar laws could expose us to severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, significant fines, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation. our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. we often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as well as our extract methodologies, and processes for our nutraceutical, natural colors for food and natural antioxidants for food protection, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. from time to time, a third party may claim that we have infringed upon or misappropriated their intellectual property rights, or a third party may infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property rights. we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights against third parties or to defend ourselves from third party assertions of invalidity, infringement or misappropriation or other claims. any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such litigation could require us to obtain a license to continue to use the intellectual property rights that are the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of such intellectual property rights. any required licensing fees may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. for those intellectual property rights that are protected as trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, since we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. the ongoing trend among our customers towards more transparent labeling could further diminish our ability to effectively protect our proprietary flavor formulations. for intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the us, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the us. if other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights or (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. from time to time we are involved in a number of legal claims, regulatory investigations and litigation, including claims related to intellectual property, product liability, environmental matters and indirect taxes. for instance, product liability claims may arise due to the fact that we supply flavors and fragrances to the food and beverage, functional food, pharma/nutraceutical and personal care industries. our manufacturing and other facilities may expose us to environmental claims and regulatory investigations. in addition, as we expand our product offering into functional food, nutraceuticals, and natural antioxidants, we may also be subject to claims of false or deceptive advertising claims in the u.s., europe and other foreign jurisdictions in which we offer these types of products. these claims can arise as a result of function claims, health claims, nutrient content claims and other claims that impermissibly suggest therapeutic benefits for certain foods or food 22 components. the cost of defending these claims or our obligations for direct damages and indemnification if we were found liable could adversely affect our profitability and our results of operations. as a result of the acquisition of frutarom, we assumed a number of legal claims, regulatory investigations and litigation and we may become involved in additional actions in the future arising from the acquired operations. specifically, as frutarom has a significantly greater number of facilities that are located globally and a significantly larger number of customers, our exposure to these type of environmental claims, product liability claims and regulatory investigations may increase. this could result in an increase in our cost for defense or settlement of claims or indemnification obligations if we were to be found liable in excess of our historical experience. our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to pending and future claims and our current levels of insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable prices. any of these factors, could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. our funding obligations for our pension and postretirement plans could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. the funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. in the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. any future impairment of our tangible or intangible long-lived assets may adversely impact our profitability. a significant portion of our assets consists of long-lived assets, including tangible assets such as our manufacturing facilities, and intangible assets and goodwill. as a result of numerous recent acquisitions, including the 2018 acquisition of frutarom, as of december 31, 2018, we had recorded approximately $8.4 billion of intangible assets and goodwill including goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions. after the frutarom acquisition was completed, for instance, we recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated financial statements. long-lived assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. for example, the amount of goodwill that we recorded from the frutarom acquisition could be subject to impairment based upon future adverse changes in our business or prospects, including our inability to recognize the benefits anticipated by the transaction. additionally, goodwill is subject to an impairment test at least annually. indicators such as under performance relative to historical or projected future operating results, changes in our strategy for its overall business or use of acquired assets, unexpected negative industry or economic trends, decreased market capitalization relative to net book values, unanticipated competitive activities, change in consumer demand, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts may signal that an asset has become impaired. to the extent any of our acquisitions do not perform as anticipated, whether due to internal or external factors, the value of such assets may be negatively affected and we may be required to record impairment charges. our results of operations and financial position in future periods could be negatively impacted should future impairments of our long-lived assets, including intangible assets or goodwill occur. changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation, or changes in existing tax laws could expose us to additional tax liabilities that may affect our future results. we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. we have and will continue to implement transfer pricing policies among our various operations located in different countries. these transfer pricing policies are a significant component of the management and compliance of our operations across international boundaries and overall financial results. many countries routinely examine transfer pricing policies of 23 taxpayers subject to their jurisdiction, challenge transfer pricing policies aggressively where there is potential non-compliance and impose significant interest charges and penalties where non-compliance is determined. however, governmental authorities could challenge these policies more aggressively in the future and, if challenged, we may not prevail. we could suffer significant costs related to one or more challenges to our transfer pricing policies. we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate, and we may be subject to assessments or audits in the future in any of the countries in which we operate. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and while we do not believe the results that follow would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, such results could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made. in addition, a number of international legislative and regulatory bodies have proposed legislation and begun investigations of the tax practices of multi-national companies and, in the european union, the tax policies of certain european union member states. one of these efforts has been led by the organisation for economic co-operation and development, an international association of 34 countries including the u.s., which has finalized recommendations to revise corporate tax, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions in member countries. since 2013, the european commission ( ec ) has been investigating tax rulings granted by tax authorities in a number of european union member states with respect to specific multi-national corporations to determine whether such rulings comply with european union rules on state aid, as well as more recent investigations of the tax regimes of certain european union member states. under european union law, selective tax advantages for particular taxpayers that are not sufficiently grounded in economic realities may constitute impermissible state aid. if the ec determines that a tax ruling or tax regime violates the state aid restrictions, the tax authorities of the affected european union member state may be required to collect back taxes for the period of time covered by the ruling. in late 2015 and early 2016, the ec declared that tax rulings, related to other companies, by tax authorities in luxembourg, the netherlands and belgium did not comply with the european union state aid restrictions. if the ec were to successfully challenge tax rulings applicable to us in any of the member states in which we are subject to taxation, we could be exposed to increased tax liabilities. the recently adopted u.s. tax legislation may result in additional tax liabilities that may affect our future results and profitability. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) that significantly revised the u.s. tax code effective january 1, 2018 by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat 21%, limiting deductibility of interest expense and performance based incentive compensation, transitioning to a territorial system and creating new taxes associated with global operations. the tax act impacted our consolidated results of operations during 2018 and is expected to continue to impact our consolidated results of operations in future periods. in future periods, we expect that our effective tax rate will be impacted by the lower u.s. corporate tax rate that will initially be offset by the elimination of the deductibility of performance based incentive compensation, and other provisions of the tax act that may impact us prospectively. however, the ultimate impact of the tax act will depend on additional regulatory or accounting guidance that may be issued with respect to the tax act and any operating and structural changes that we may undertake to permit us to benefit from the new, lower u.s. tax rate prospectively. this could adversely affect our results of operations. the potential government regulation of certain of our product development initiatives is uncertain, and we may be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. as part of our ingredients research program, we seek to enhance our collaboration with research institutions and companies throughout the world, including biotechnology companies. however, it is unclear whether any of our product developments will be classified as genetically modified food products subject to regulation as a biotechnology product. the manufacture of biotechnology products is subject to applicable current good manufacturing practice (cgmp) regulations as prescribed by the food and drug administration and the applicable standards prescribed by european commission and the competent authorities of european union member states and to other rules and regulations prescribed by foreign regulatory authorities. compliance with these regulations can be expensive and time consuming. such regulation could also subject us to requirements for labeling and traceability, which may cause our customers to avoid our affected products and seek our competitors' products. this may result in our inability to realize any benefit from our investment and have an adverse effect on our operating results. our business may be negatively impacted as a result of the united kingdom's expected departure from the european union in 2019. 24 we currently manufacture goods in the united kingdom for distribution in the european union and vice-versa and therefore may be adversely affected as a result of the united kingdom's expected departure from the european union in 2019. the united kingdom is expected to withdraw from the european union in march 2019, commonly referred to as brexit . negotiations are still underway to determine the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. the progress and outcomes of brexit negotiations have, and may continue to, create global economic uncertainty, especially as customers and potential customers are unable to currently gauge the future regulations, and therefore costs, that will apply to their operations in the united kingdom, and between the united kingdom and the european union. the withdrawal could, among other outcomes, exacerbate the disruption of the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union, undermine bilateral cooperation in key geographic areas and significantly disrupt trade between the united kingdom and the european union or other nations as the united kingdom pursues independent trade relations. in addition, brexit has caused legal uncertainty, which could last indefinitely, and may potentially create divergent national laws and regulations as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the united kingdom makes to retain access to european union or other markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. adverse consequences concerning brexit or the european union could include deterioration in global economic conditions, instability in global financial markets, political uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, or adverse changes in the cross-border agreements currently in place, any of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , the company's exposure to market risk was estimated using sensitivity analyses, which illustrate the change in the fair value of a derivative financial instrument assuming hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding twelve months. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2018 , the company's foreign currency exposures pertaining to derivative contracts exist with the euro, japanese yen, british pound, australian dollar and indonesian rupiah. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the applicable balance sheet exchange rates (primarily against the u.s. dollar), the estimated fair value of the company's foreign currency forward contracts would increase or decrease by approximately $60 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. we have entered into certain cross currency swap agreements in order to mitigate a portion of our net european investments from foreign currency risk. as of december 31, 2018, these swaps were in a net asset position with an aggregate fair value of $1.09 million . based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro, the estimated fair value of the company's cross currency swaps would change by approximately $60 million. at december 31, 2018 , the fair value of our eur fixed rate debt was 1.62 billion . based on a hypothetical increase of 10% in foreign exchange rates, the estimated fair value of the company's eur fixed debt would increase by $200 million. at december 31, 2018 , the fair value of our usd fixed rate debt was $2.35 billion . based on a hypothetical increase of 10% in interest rates, the estimated fair value of the company's us fixed debt would decrease by $84 million. we purchase certain commodities, such as natural gas, electricity, petroleum based products and certain crop related items. we generally purchase these commodities based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the purchase process. in general, we do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge commodity prices.risk factors 12 risk factors. we routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. some of these risks may cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. below are material risks we have identified that could adversely affect our business. how we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors and customers react to those developments, could also affect our future results. risks related to our business and industry we may not realize all the benefits anticipated from the frutarom acquisition, which could adversely affect our business. the success of the frutarom acquisition ultimately depends on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from the transaction. since the frutarom acquisition, we have benefited from, and expect to continue to benefit from cost synergies through global footprint optimization across manufacturing, the realization of significant procurement synergies plus organizational and operational efficiencies in overhead expenses. we also expect to achieve revenue synergies by leveraging customer relationships across a much broader customer base and cross-selling legacy iff and frutarom technology and capabilities. if we fail to realize all the benefits that we expect to achieve from the frutarom acquisition, our business could be adversely affected. the integration of our legacy iff business and frutarom's business is a costly and time-consuming process, and we may face significant implementation challenges that will impact our ability to realize the expected benefits from the acquisition, including without limitation: potential disruption of, or reduced growth in, our historical core businesses, due to diversion of management attention as well as financial and other resources from our historical core business and uncertainty with our current customer and supplier relationships; loss of business as a result of changes in customer and/or competitor behaviors following the frutarom acquisition, including our inability to keep certain customer accounts of frutarom who may be direct competitors to iff, or our need to deprioritize our business activities in certain markets based on market conditions; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects; challenges arising from the expansion of our product offerings into adjacencies with which we have limited experience, including functional foods and nutrition; the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration; coordinating and integrating research and development teams across technologies and products to enhance product development while reducing costs; coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position our capabilities and the direction of product development; ensuring regulatory compliance, quality. safety and sustainability standards across an organization of increased scale and complexity; retaining and efficiently managing our significantly expanded and decentralized customer base; the assumption of and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of frutarom; unanticipated issues or higher than expected costs in consolidating and integrating corporate, information technology, finance and administrative infrastructures, and integrating and harmonizing business systems; combining and optimizing our manufacturing facilities and global supply chain as well as leveraging customer relationships for cross-selling opportunities; aligning compliance, quality, as well as safety and sustainability standards across operations; 12 aligning processes, policies, procedures, technologies, operations, employee benefits, information technologies and systems across operations; difficulties in managing a larger and more complex combined company, addressing differences in business culture and retaining key personnel; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company. some of these factors are outside of our control and any one of them if not successfully managed could result in increased costs and diversion of management's time and energy, as well as reputational harm and decreases in the amount of expected revenue which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. if the anticipated benefits from the frutarom acquisition are not fully realized, or take longer to realize than expected, the value of our common stock, revenues, levels of expenses and results of operations may be adversely affected. the frutarom acquisition resulted, and may continue to result, in significant costs, charges or other liabilities that could adversely affect the financial results of the combined company. following the acquisition of frutarom, our financial results were adversely affected by restructuring charges, cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges incurred in connection with the acquisition. we expect to record total pretax restructuring charges related to the frutarom acquisition of approximately $65 million , of which $10.4 million have been recorded since closing of the transaction through december 31, 2019, comprised of approximately $6.1 million of severance and related benefit costs; $0.5 million of asset write-downs and write-offs; and $3.7 million of costs associated with exit and disposal activities. in addition, there are many processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that are being integrated across our organization that will result in costs, including financial advisory, tax, information technology, legal, consulting and other professional advisory fees associated with these integration activities. costs and expenses incurred in connection with the integration limit resources that may otherwise be available for investment in research and development and capital expenditures. as a result of the acquisition, we assumed all of frutarom's liabilities, including unknown and contingent liabilities. due to the nature of the transaction and the characteristics of frutarom, our ability to conduct extensive due diligence was limited and we may subsequently identify unknown liabilities, including those that frutarom assumed in its prior acquisitions that are not currently probable or estimable. prior to our acquisition, frutarom completed 47 acquisitions since 2011, including 22 since the beginning of 2016. if we do not properly assess the scope of these liabilities or if these liabilities are neither probable nor estimable at this time, our future financial results could be adversely affected by unanticipated reserves or charges, unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting charges, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. we may fail to realize the expected cost savings and increased efficiencies from or stay within our estimated costs of the frutarom integration and our ongoing optimization of our manufacturing facilities may not be as effective as we anticipate. our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and synergies from the frutarom manufacturing rationalization may be affected by a variety of factors which may impose significant risks to us and which may be out of our control, including: our ability to accurately estimate costs in multiple jurisdictions related to the consolidation, updating or closing of manufacturing facilities; our ability to successfully and efficiently manufacture the relocated product lines at a different manufacturing facility; our ability to effectively reduce overhead and integrate and retain employees of the relocated operations; difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; integrating newly acquired manufacturing, distribution and technology facilities; potential strains on our personnel, systems and resources and diversion of attention from other priorities; and unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the relocated operations, including tax liabilities. actual charges, costs and adjustments arising from these activities may vary materially from our estimates, and may require cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in excess of forecasted amounts, which could offset any such savings and other synergies and therefore could have an adverse effect on our margins. 13 furthermore, as part of our ongoing strategy, we seek to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth and technology needs. for example, we are in the process of relocating one of our fragrance ingredients facilities in china and constructing new facilities in india and indonesia. in addition, in connection with the frutarom integration, we are consolidating, updating and/or closing manufacturing facilities to achieve synergies and align our manufacturing footprint. our incurrence of additional debt to pay the cash portion of the frutarom consideration increased our financial leverage and could adversely affect our future cash flows and cost of capital. in connection with the acquisition of frutarom, we borrowed approximately $3.3 billion of additional debt, thereby significantly increasing our leverage. as of december 31, 2019, our total debt consisted of $4.4 billion. there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on our debt could adversely affect our cash flows, our operating results or our ability to return capital to our shareholders. furthermore, our degree of leverage could adversely affect our future credit ratings. if we are unable to maintain or improve our current investment grade rating, it could adversely affect our future cost of funding, liquidity and access to capital markets. in addition, our current level of leverage could increase our vulnerability to sustained, adverse macroeconomic weakness, limit our ability to obtain further financing, and our ability to pursue certain operational and strategic opportunities, including large acquisitions. our level of indebtedness as well as our failure to comply with covenants under our debt instruments, could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. failure to successfully establish and manage acquisitions, collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships could adversely affect our growth. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business and/or growth objectives. if we are unable to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including any expected increase in revenues and operating results, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we may also incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions that reduce our earnings. additionally, we also evaluate and enter into collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships from time to time to enhance our research and development efforts or expand our product portfolios and technology. the process of establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships is difficult and time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. we may not be able to successfully negotiate such arrangements or the terms of the arrangements may not be as favorable as anticipated. furthermore, our ability to generate revenues from such collaborations will depend on our partners' abilities and efforts to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements and these collaborations may not lead to development or commercialization of products in the most efficient manner, or at all. in addition, from time to time, we have acquired, and we may acquire, only a majority interest in companies and provided or may provide earnouts for the former owners along with the ability, at our option, or obligation, at the former owners' option, to purchase the minority interests at a future date at an established price. these investments may have additional risks and may not be as efficient as other operations as we may have fiduciary or contractual obligations to the minority investors and may rely on former owners for the continuing operation of the acquired business. if we are unable to successfully establish and manage these collaborative relationships and majority investments it could adversely affect our future growth. our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer. the markets in which we compete are highly competitive. we face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multi-national and specialized flavors, fragrances, nutrition and specialty ingredients companies, as well as consumer product companies which may develop their own flavors, fragrances or ingredients. in the flavors industry, we also face increasing competition from ingredient suppliers that have expanded their portfolios to include flavor offerings. some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product sub-segments, while others participate in many of our product sub-segments. in addition, some of our global competitors may have more resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can. consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. as we continue to enter into adjacent markets, such as cosmetic ingredients, functional foods, specialty fine ingredients and nutrition products, we may face greater competition-related risks in these markets than with our core historic flavor and fragrances businesses. for example, the specialty fine ingredients market is more price sensitive than the flavors market and is characterized by relatively lower profit margins. some fine ingredients products are less unique and more replaceable than competitors' products. there is no assurance that operating margins will remain at current levels, which could substantially impact our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 competition in our business is based, among other things, on innovation, product quality, regulatory compliance, pricing, quality of customer service, the support provided by marketing and application groups, and understanding of consumers. it is difficult for us to predict the timing, scale and success of our competitors' actions in these areas. in particular, the discovery and development of new flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients, protection of our intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are critical to our ability to effectively compete in our business. advancement in technologies have also enhanced the ability of our competitors to develop substitutable products. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the loss of sales, reduced pricing and margin pressure and could adversely impact our sales and profitability. if we are unable to successfully market to our expanded and diverse taste customer base, our operating results and future growth may be adversely affected. as a result of our acquisition of frutarom, the number of our customers significantly increased and became more diverse. our historical customer base was primarily comprised of large and medium-sized food, beverage and consumer products companies. as a result of the expansion of our tastepoint initiative and the frutarom acquisition, and based on 2019 sales, we currently have approximately 38,000 customers, approximately 65% of which are small and mid-sized companies. this substantial increase in and diversity of our customer base requires us to adjust, among other things, our product development, manufacturing, distribution, marketing, customer relationship and sales strategy as well as adapt corporate, information technology, finance and administrative infrastructures to support different go-to-market models. we may experience difficulty managing the growth of a portfolio of customers that is more diverse in terms of its geographical presence as well as with respect to the types of services they require and the infrastructure required to deliver our products. if we are unable to successfully gain market share or maintain our relationships with these customers, our future growth could be adversely affected. our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers, scientists and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. furthermore, as we continue to focus on innovation, our need for scientists and other professionals will increase. an important factor in our ability to realize our anticipated benefits from the frutarom acquisition is our ability to retain key employees at frutarom. the ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. competition for employees can be intense and if we are unable to successfully integrate, motivate and reward the acquired frutarom employees or our current employees in our combined company, we may not be able to retain them. if we are unable to retain these employees or attract new employees in the future, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected. a significant portion of our sales is generated from a limited number of large multi-national customers, which are currently under competitive pressures that may affect the demand for our products and profitability. during 2019, our 25 largest customers, each of which was a multi-national consumer products company, accounted for 38% of our sales. large multi-national customers' market share, especially in the consumer product industry, continues to be pressured by new smaller companies and specialty players that cater to or are more adept at adjusting to the latest consumer trends, including towards natural products and clean labels, changes in the retail landscape (including e-commerce and consolidation), and increased competition from private labels, which have resulted and may continue to result in decreased demand for our products by such multi-national customers and volume erosion, especially in our taste business. furthermore, consolidations amongst our customers have resulted in larger and more sophisticated customers with greater buying power and additional negotiating strength. if such trends continue, our sales could be adversely impacted if we are not able to replace these sales. in addition, large multi-national customers and, increasingly middle market customers, continue to utilize core lists of suppliers to improve margins and profitability. typically, these core list" suppliers are then given priority for new or modified products. recently, these customers are making inclusion on their core lists contingent upon a supplier providing more favorable commercial terms, including rebates, which could adversely affect our margins. we must either offer competitive cost-in-use solutions to secure and maintain inclusion on these core lists or seek to manage the relationship without being on the core-list. if we choose not to pursue core-list status due to profitability concerns or if we are unable to obtain core-list status, our ability to maintain our share of these customers' future purchases could be adversely affected and therefore our future results of operations. 15 we may not successfully develop and introduce new products that meet our customers' needs, which may adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to differentiate ourselves and deliver growth in line with our vision 2021 strategy largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that meet our customers' needs, and ultimately appeal to consumers. innovation is a key element of our ability to develop and introduce new products. we cannot be certain that we will be successful in achieving our innovation goals, such as the development of new molecules, new and expanded delivery systems and other technologies. we currently spend approximately 6.7% of our sales on research and development; however this investment level may vary if available resources to invest in research and development are limited due to our ongoing integration and restructuring efforts. our research and development investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to develop products that meet our customers' specifications, are at an acceptable cost and achieve acceptance by the targeted consumer market. furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur research and development costs to the time that these research and development costs may result in increased revenue. consequently, even when we win a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous customer, economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, the level of promotional support for the launch, poor performance of our third-party vendors, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands, or disruptive innovations by competitors. natural disasters, public health crises (such as the recent coronavirus outbreak), international conflicts, terrorist acts, labor strikes, political crisis, accidents and other events could adversely affect our business and financial results by disrupting development, manufacturing, distribution or sale of our products. as a company engaged in the global development, manufacture and distribution of products, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, product quality control issues, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters, public health crises, such as pandemics or epidemics, international conflicts, terrorist acts and other external factors over which we have no control. while we operate research and development, manufacturing and distribution facilities throughout the world, many of these facilities are extremely specialized and certain of our research and development or creative laboratories facilities are uniquely situated to support our research and development efforts while certain of our manufacturing facilities are the sole location where a specific ingredient or product is produced. if our research and development activities or the manufacturing of ingredients or products were disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing these activities or reformulating these ingredients or products may be substantial, which could result in production or development delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our margins, operating results and future growth. for example, in december 2019, there was an outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus (covid-19) in wuhan, china that has since spread to other regions in china and the rest of the world. to contain the outbreak, the chinese central government extended the lunar new year holiday for one week and issued guidance pursuant to which local governments in china have taken temporary measures to limit large gatherings and impose travel restrictions. as a result, a portion of our manufacturing plants and offices in china were required to close for a week. the outbreak may result in additional or more extensive travel restrictions, closures, disruptions of businesses or facilities in china or other affected regions around the world or lead to social, economic, political or labor instability in the affected areas may impact our, our suppliers' or our customers' operations. the outbreak may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. at this point, the extent of such impact is uncertain. a disruption in our supply chain, including the inability to obtain ingredients and raw materials from third parties, could adversely affect our business and financial results. in connection with our manufacture of our fragrance and flavor products, we often rely on third party suppliers for ingredients and raw materials that are integral to our manufacture of such compounds. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather conditions, climate change, as further discussed below, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control affecting us and/or our suppliers. import alerts or specific country regulations may impair or delay our ability to obtain sufficient quantity of certain ingredients, raw materials and naturals at the relevant manufacturing facility. in addition, our ingredient or raw material suppliers, similar to us, are subject to risks, as applicable, inherent in agriculture, manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, disruption or loss of key research or manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety and environmental compliance issues, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters, global or local health crisis, international conflicts, terrorist acts and other external factors over which they have no control. these suppliers also could become insolvent or experience other financial distress. for example, in 2017, a fire at the manufacturing facility of basf group ( basf ), one of 16 our suppliers, caused them to declare a force majeure and has resulted in industry disruption due to the lack of availability of certain ingredients used in many fragrance compounds. these risks are enhanced since we often rely on a limited number of suppliers for particular ingredients. if our suppliers are unable to supply us with sufficient quantities of ingredients and raw materials to meet our needs, we would need to seek alternative sources of such materials or pursue our own production of such ingredients or direct acquisition of such raw materials. however, for certain of our ingredients and raw materials we rely on a limited number of suppliers where there are not readily available alternatives. if we are unable to obtain or manufacture alternative sources of such ingredients or raw materials at a similar cost, we would seek to (i) reformulate our compounds and/or (ii) increase pricing to reflect the higher supply cost. however, if we are not able to successfully implement any of these alternatives, we could experience disruptions in production, increased cost of sales and a corresponding decrease in gross margin or reduced sales, especially if our competitors were able to more successfully adjust to such market disruption. at the same time, industry-wide supply disruptions, such as the one caused by the basf incident, may lead to broader market shortages and sales volatility. such fluctuations and decrease in gross margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation, including due to climate change, could harm our profits. we use many different raw materials for our business, particularly natural products, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. we have experienced price volatility with respect to raw materials. for example, there has been industry-wide price volatility of certain ingredients used in fragrance compounds due to the basf incident and in 2019 we experienced increases in the prices of certain naturals. natural products represent approximately half of our raw material spend, and we expect such volatility to continue in the near future. in addition, because we offer a substantial number of natural product offerings and often rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain products, this risk may be exacerbated. there is growing evidence that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather and precipitation patterns, growing and harvesting conditions, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters, such as floods, wildfires, droughts and water scarcity. to the extent such climate change effects have a negative impact on crop size and quality, it could impact the availability and pricing of these natural products. if we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our products to offset raw material and other input cost increases, or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, we could fail to meet our cost expectations and our profits and operating results could be adversely affected. increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in sales volumes, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by, among other things, market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, climate change and weather conditions, and other world events. as we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have an adverse long-term impact on our results of operations. our ability to price our products competitively to timely reflect volatility in prices of raw material and ingredients is critical to maintain and grow our sales. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. however, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used for the geographic region in which we will need these materials or competitively price our products, our margins could be adversely affected. a significant data breach or other disruption to our information technology systems could disrupt our operations, result in the loss of confidential information or personal data, and adversely impact our reputation, business or results of operations. we rely on information technology systems, including some managed by third-party providers, to conduct business and support our business processes, including those relating to product formulas, product development, manufacturing, sales, order and invoice processing, production, distribution, internal communications and communications with third parties throughout the world, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, tax or legal requirements, and collecting and storing customer, supplier, employee and other stakeholder information. cyber security incidents, data breaches and operational disruptions caused by cyberattacks or cyber-intrusions are constantly evolving in nature, becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of expertise and motives, 17 including computer hackers, foreign governments, cyber terrorists, cyber criminals and malicious employees or other insiders. we and our third-party providers are subject to risks posed by such incidents, which can take many forms, including code anomalies, acts of god, data leakage, hardware or software failures, human error, cyber extortion, password theft or introduction of viruses, malware, ransomware, including through phishing emails. a disruption to our information technology systems could result in the loss of confidential business, customer, supplier or employee information, litigation or fines and may require substantial investigations, repairs or replacements, or impact our ability to summarize and report financial results in a timely manner, resulting in significant financial, legal, and relational costs and potentially harming our reputation and adversely impacting our operations, customer service and results of operations. because we do not currently have duplications of our information technology systems and we continue to work on upgrading and integrating frutarom's systems into ours, these risks may be exacerbated. additionally, a security or data breach could require us to devote significant management and financial resources to address the problems created. these types of adverse impacts could also occur in the event the confidentiality, integrity or availability of company, customer, supplier or employee information are compromised due to a data loss by us or a trusted third party. we or the third parties with which we share information may not discover any such incidents and loss of information for a significant period of time after the incident occurs. while we have security processes and initiatives in place, we may be unable to detect or prevent a breach or disruption in the future. additionally, while we have insurance coverage designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks in place, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. if we fail to comply with data protection laws in the u.s. and abroad, we may be subject to fines, penalties and other costs. recently, there has also been heightened regulatory and enforcement focus on data protection in the u.s. (at both the state and federal level) and abroad, and an actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable u.s. or foreign data protection regulations or other data protection standards may expose us to litigation (including, in some instances, class action litigation), fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could harm our reputation and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. this regulatory environment is increasingly challenging and may present material obligations and risks to our business, including significantly expanded compliance burdens, costs and enforcement risks. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of eu law and adds a broad array of requirements related to personal data, including individual notice and opt-out preferences and the public disclosure of significant data breaches. additionally, violations of the gdpr can result in fines of as much as 4% of a company's annual revenue. other governments have enacted or are enacting similar data protection laws, including data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. beginning in 2020, we will also be required to comply with certain additional requirements under the california consumer privacy act. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements, as well as the uncertain interpretation and enforcement of laws, impose significant costs and regulatory risks that are likely to increase over time. our failure to comply with these evolving regulations could expose us to fines, penalties and other costs that could adversely impact our financial results. if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements and industry standards, including those regarding product safety, quality, efficacy and environmental impact, we could incur significant costs and suffer reputational harm which could adversely affect results of operations. the development, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are developed, manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by governments, industry or similar oversight bodies, or contractually by our customers, including requirements concerning product safety, quality and efficacy, environmental impacts (including packaging, energy and water use and waste management) and other sustainability or similar issues. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance with these regulations and standards by (i) identifying current product standards, (ii) assessing relative risks in our supply chain, (iii) monitoring internal and external performance and (iv) testing raw materials and finished goods. as concerns regarding safety, quality and environmental impact become more pressing, we may see new, more restrictive regulations adopted that impact our products. for example, the european chemicals agency has proposed that the european commission adopt a ban on microplastics, including those found in personal care items, detergents and cosmetics, to reduce plastics pollution. if this ban is adopted, we will be required to modify our products and/or innovate new solutions to replace microplastics in our products. if we are unable to adapt to these new regulations or standards in a cost effective and timely manner, we may lose business to competitors who are able to provide compliant products. gaps in our operational processes or those of our suppliers or distributors can result in products that do not meet our quality control or industry standards or fail to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements, which in turn can result in finished consumer goods that do not comply with applicable standards and requirements. products that are mislabeled, 18 contaminated or damaged could result in a regulatory non-compliance event or even a product recall by the fda or a similar foreign agency. our contracts often require us to indemnify our customers for the costs associated with a product non-compliance event, including penalties, costs and settlements arising from litigation, remediation costs or loss of sales. as our flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients are used in many products intended for human use or consumption, these consequences would be exacerbated if we or our customer did not identify the defect before the product reaches the consumer and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. such a result could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, negative effects on consumer's health, recalls and potential litigation, fines, penalties, sanctions or other regulatory actions. in addition, if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification from suppliers or other third parties, or if insurance or indemnification is not available, the liability relating to product or possible third-party claims arising from mislabeled, contaminated or damaged products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, or our customers' products that contain our ingredients, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales and customer relationships, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation. increasing awareness of health and wellness are driving changes in the consumer products industry, and if we are unable to react in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected. we must continually anticipate and react, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to changes in consumer preferences and demands, including changes in demand driven by increasing awareness of health and wellness and demands for transparency or cleaner labels with respect to product ingredients by consumers and regulators. consumers, especially in developed economies such as the u.s. and western europe, are rapidly shifting away from products containing artificial ingredients to all-natural, healthier alternatives. in addition, there has been a growing demand by consumers, non-governmental organizations and, to a lesser extent, governmental agencies to provide more transparency in product labeling and our customers have been taking steps to address this demand, including by voluntarily providing product-specific ingredients disclosure. these two trends could affect the types and volumes of our ingredients and compounds that our customers include in their consumer product offerings and, therefore, affect the demand for our products. if we are unable to react to or anticipate these trends in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected. we are subject to increasing customer, consumer and regulatory focus on sustainability issues, which may result in additional costs in order to meet new requirements or upgrade frutarom's sustainability practices federal, state, local and foreign governments, our customers and consumers are becoming increasingly sensitive to sustainability issues. we have committed to a sustainability strategy designed to meet this global trend and are currently assessing our combined environmental footprint following the frutarom acquisition, with the intent of identifying synergies, gaps and opportunities in our sustainability efforts. as part of our assessment so far, we have begun upgrading frutarom's sustainability practices to better align them to our legacy iff practices, and which may require significant costs and time to implement. our assessment may reveal additional gaps between the legacy frutarom operations and our sustainability practices and goals, which may require significant costs to remedy. despite our efforts, the increased focus on sustainability may result in new regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us. these could cause us to incur additional direct costs or to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations and customer requirements. we could also lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we have not complied with their sustainability requirements or if we are not successful in improving frutarom's sustainability metrics. these potential costs, changes and loss of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have made investments in and continue to expand our business into emerging markets, which exposes us to certain risks. as part of our growth strategy, we have increased our presence in emerging markets by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets, and we expect to continue to expand our business in these markets. with our acquisition of frutarom in 2018, who also had a significant presence in emerging markets, our business in these markets has meaningfully grown. in addition to the currency and international risks described below, our operations in these markets may be subject to a variety of other risks. emerging markets typically have a consumer base with limited or fluctuating disposable income and customer demand in these markets may fluctuate accordingly. as a result, decrease in customer demand in emerging markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our growth strategy. 19 further, there is no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, distribute or sell will be accepted or be successful in any particular developing or emerging market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences, consumer preferences or otherwise. in addition, emerging markets may have weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization or other government actions that may affect taxes, subsidies and incentive programs and the flow of goods and currency. in conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in trade, customs and tax regimes in these markets. if we are unable to expand our business in developing and emerging markets, effectively operate, or manage the risks associated with operating in these markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect from our investments in these markets, our operating results and future growth could be adversely affected. the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate may negatively affect our results of operations. we have significant operations outside the u.s., the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. for example, as of july 1, 2018, we concluded that argentina's economy is highly inflationary under us gaap, as it has experienced cumulative inflation of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. while our current operations in argentina represent less than 3% of our consolidated net sales and less than 1% of our consolidated total assets, continuing inflation in argentina could adversely affect our profitability in a specific period. changes in exchange rates between these local currencies and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded levels of sales, profitability, assets and/or liabilities. additionally, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows or liquidity. although we employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such hedging and risk management strategies will be effective, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. our international operations are subject to regulatory, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the u.s., europe, africa, the middle east, latin america, and greater asia. during 2019, 80% of our combined net sales were to customers outside the u.s. and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by location, include the following: governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic and macroeconomic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that may impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates, employment regulations, currency fluctuations or controls and sustainability of resources; changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, such as the continued implementation of the european union's reach regulations and similar regulations that are being evaluated and adopted in other markets, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with such regulations which may differ significantly across jurisdictions; increased environmental, health and safety regulations or the loss of necessary environmental permits in certain countries; the imposition of or changes in customs, tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, and sanctions on trade with certain countries, imposed by the u.s. or other countries, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors and fragrance products to surrounding markets; risks and costs arising from our ability to cater to local demand and customer preferences, language and cultural differences; changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, the costs and ability to repatriate the profit that we generate in these countries; risks and costs associated with complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing laws; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, bribery and corruption, anti-american sentiment, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; 20 difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained local personnel; natural disasters, global or local health crisis (such as the recent coronavirus outbreak), pandemics, epidemics or international conflicts, including terrorist acts, political crisis, national and regional labor strikes in the countries in which we operate, which could endanger our personnel, interrupt our operations or adversely affect the demand for our products, the results of certain regions or our global supply chain; or the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights. the occurrence of any one or more of these factors could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. economic uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products which may have a negative impact on our operating results and future growth. our flavors and fragrance compounds and our fragrance, cosmetic active and functional food ingredients are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. historically, demand for consumer products using these compounds and ingredients was stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and consumer needs, population growth, an expanding global middle-class and general economic growth, especially in emerging markets. the global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. while some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the predictions surrounding the global recessionary economic environment in europe has, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. in addition, growth rates in the emerging markets have moderated from previous levels. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances compounds or ingredients, or order cancellations. the timing of placing of orders and the amounts of these orders are generally at our customers' discretion. customers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders with us on relatively short notice. significant cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by customers could affect our quarterly results. it is currently anticipated that these challenging economic uncertainties will continue to affect certain of our markets during 2020 which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and overall operating results. failure to comply with environmental protection laws may cause us to close, relocate or operate one or more of our plants at reduced production levels, and expose us to civil or criminal liability, which could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. our business operations and properties procure, make use of, manufacture, sell, and distribute substances that are sometimes considered hazardous and are therefore subject to extensive and increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to protection of the environment, including air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including the need to close or relocate one or more of our production facilities, administrative, civil and criminal penalties, fines, sanctions, litigation, costly remediation measures, liability for damages and negative publicity. if we are unable to meet production requirements, we can lose customer orders, which can adversely affect our future growth or we may be required to make incremental capital investments to ensure supply. for example, we recently completed negotiations with the chinese government concerning the relocation of a second fragrance facility in china. idling of facilities or production modifications has caused or may cause customers to seek alternate suppliers due to concerns regarding supply interruptions and these customers may not return or may order at reduced levels even once issues are remediated. if these non-compliance issues reoccur in china or occur or in any other jurisdiction, we may lose business and may be required to incur capital spending above previous expectations, close a plant, or operate a plant at significantly reduced production levels on a permanent basis, and our operating results and cash flows from operations may be adversely affected. our performance may be adversely impacted if we are not successful in managing our inventory and/or working capital balances. we evaluate our inventory balances of materials based on shelf life, expected sourcing levels, known uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity and changes in our product/sales mix. efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success, financial returns and profitability. to be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product/sales mix to meet our customers' demands, without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs associated with storing and holding other inventory adversely impact our financial results. if our buying decisions do not accurately predict sourcing levels, customer trends or our expectations about customer 21 needs are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns or impairment charges to dispose of the excess or obsolete inventory, which can adversely impact our financial results. additionally, we believe excess inventory levels of raw materials with a short shelf life in our manufacturing facilities subjects us to the risk of increased inventory shrinkage. if we are not successful in managing our inventory balances and shrinkage, our results of and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected. we sell certain accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to unrelated financial institutions under factoring agreements that are sponsored, solely and individually, by certain customers. the cost of participating in these programs was immaterial to our results in all periods. should we choose not to participate, or if these programs were no longer available, it could reduce our cash flows from operations in the period in which the arrangement ends. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar u.s. or foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. the global nature of our business, the significance of our international revenue and our focus on emerging markets create various domestic and local regulatory challenges and subject us to risks associated with our international operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in other countries generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or for other commercial advantage. in addition, u.s. public companies are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. under the fcpa, u.s. companies may be held liable for the corrupt actions taken by directors, officers, employees, agents, or other strategic or local partners or representatives. as such, if we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the fcpa or similar legislation, governmental authorities in the u.s. and elsewhere could seek to impose substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. we operate or may pursue opportunities in some jurisdictions, such as china, india, brazil, russia and africa, that pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues. in certain jurisdictions, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. from time to time, we have conducted and will conduct internal investigations of the relevant facts and circumstances, control testing and compliance reviews, and take remedial actions, when appropriate, to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable corruption and similar laws and regulations. for example, in august 2019, during the integration of frutarom, we were made aware of allegations that two frutarom businesses operating principally in russia and ukraine made certain improper payments, including to representatives of a number of customers. our investigation substantiated the allegations that improper payments to representatives of customers were made and that key members of frutarom's senior management at the time were aware of such payments. we did not uncover any evidence suggesting that such payments had any connection to the u.s. in addition, frutarom grew through rapid acquisition and, as part of our integration efforts, we are implementing our anti- corruption and similar policies throughout a number of those acquired companies, many of which were not previously subject to these u.s. laws. detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of the fcpa or other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations is expensive, could consume significant time and attention of our senior management and could subject us to investigations and inquiries by governmental and other regulatory bodies. any allegations of non- compliance with such laws and regulations could have a disruptive effect on our operations in such jurisdiction, including interruptions of business or loss of third-party relationships, which may negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with such laws and regulations could expose us to severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, significant fines, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation. any impairment of our tangible or intangible long-lived assets, including goodwill, may adversely impact our profitability. a significant portion of our assets consists of long-lived assets, including tangible assets such as our manufacturing facilities, and intangible assets, including goodwill. as a result of numerous recent acquisitions, including the 2018 acquisition of frutarom, as of december 31, 2019, we had recorded approximately $8.3 billion of intangible assets and goodwill, including $4.3 billion of goodwill associated with the acquisition of frutarom. our results of operations and financial position in future periods could be negatively impacted should future impairments of our long-lived assets, including intangible assets or goodwill occur. at least annually, we assess both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. we test for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit 22 exceeds its estimated fair value, we record an impairment charge based on the difference of the two. intangible assets with finite lives are also tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. such events and changes in circumstances could include a sustained decrease in our market capitalization, increased competition or unexpected loss of market share, increased input costs beyond projections (for example due to regulatory or industry changes), our inability to recognize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, unexpected business disruptions (for example due to a natural disaster or loss of a customer, supplier, or other significant business relationship), acts by governments and courts, operating results falling short of projections, or significant adverse changes in the markets in which we operate. fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates and market factors. estimating the fair value of reporting units requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our business performance, future plans, future annual net cash flows, income tax considerations, discount rates, growth rates, and based on industry, economic, regulatory conditions and other market factors. to the extent any of our acquisitions, including the acquisition of frutarom, do not perform as anticipated and our underlying assumptions and estimates related to their fair value determination are not met, whether due to internal or external factors, the value of such assets may be negatively affected and we may be required to record impairment charges. our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. we often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as well as our extract methodologies, and processes for our nutrition, natural colors for food and natural antioxidants for food protection, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. from time to time, a third party may claim that we have infringed upon or misappropriated their intellectual property rights, or a third party may infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property rights. we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights against third parties or to defend ourselves from third-party assertions of invalidity, infringement, misappropriation or other claims. any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such litigation could require us to obtain a license to continue to use the intellectual property rights that are the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of such intellectual property rights. any required licensing fees may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. for those intellectual property rights that are protected as trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, since we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. the ongoing trend among our customers towards more transparent labeling could further diminish our ability to effectively protect our proprietary flavor formulations. for intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the u.s., the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the us. if other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by, among other things, (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights, (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell or (iv) resulting in significant litigation costs and potential liability. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. from time to time we are involved in a number of legal claims, regulatory investigations and litigation, including claims related to intellectual property, product liability, environmental matters and indirect taxes. for instance, product liability claims may arise due to the fact that we supply flavors and fragrances to the food and beverage, functional food, pharma/nutraceutical and personal care industries. our manufacturing and other facilities may expose us to environmental claims and regulatory investigations. in addition, as we expand our product offering into functional food, nutraceuticals, and natural antioxidants, we may also be subject to claims of false or deceptive advertising claims in the u.s., europe and other foreign jurisdictions in which we offer these types of products. these claims can arise as a result of function claims, health claims, nutrient content claims and other claims that impermissibly suggest therapeutic benefits for certain foods or food components. the cost of defending these claims or our obligations for direct damages and indemnification if we were found liable could adversely affect our results of operations. as a result of the acquisition of frutarom, we assumed a number of legal claims, regulatory investigations and litigation and we may become involved in additional actions in the future arising from the acquired operations. specifically, as frutarom has a significantly greater number of facilities that are located globally and a significantly larger number of customers, our 23 exposure to these types of environmental claims, product liability claims and regulatory investigations may increase. this could result in an increase in our cost for defense or settlement of claims or indemnification obligations if we were to be found liable in excess of our historical experience. in addition, we are also the subject of a putative shareholder class action lawsuit filed in august 2019 after we disclosed that preliminary results of investigations indicated that frutarom businesses operating principally in russia and ukraine had made improper payments to representatives of customers. our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to pending and future claims and our current levels of insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable prices. any of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. our funding obligations for our pension and postretirement plans could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. the funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. in the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation, or changes in existing tax laws could expose us to additional tax liabilities that may affect our future results. we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. we have and will continue to implement transfer pricing policies among our various operations located in different countries. these transfer pricing policies are a significant component of the management and compliance of our operations across international boundaries and overall financial results. many countries routinely examine transfer pricing policies of taxpayers subject to their jurisdiction, challenge transfer pricing policies aggressively where there is potential non-compliance and impose significant interest charges and penalties where non-compliance is determined. however, governmental authorities could challenge these policies more aggressively in the future and, if challenged, we may not prevail. we could suffer significant costs related to one or more challenges to our transfer pricing policies. we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate, and we may be subject to assessments or audits in the future in any of the countries in which we operate. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and while we do not believe the results that follow would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, such results could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made. in addition, a number of international legislative and regulatory bodies have proposed legislation and begun investigations of the tax practices of multi-national companies and, in the european union, the tax policies of certain european union member states. one of these efforts has been led by the organisation for economic co-operation and development, an international association of 34 countries including the u.s., which has finalized recommendations to revise corporate tax, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions in member countries. since 2013, the european commission ( ec ) has been investigating tax rulings granted by tax authorities in a number of european union member states with respect to specific 24 multi-national corporations to determine whether such rulings comply with european union rules on state aid, as well as more recent investigations of the tax regimes of certain european union member states. under european union law, selective tax advantages for particular taxpayers that are not sufficiently grounded in economic realities may constitute impermissible state aid. if the ec determines that a tax ruling or tax regime violates the state aid restrictions, the tax authorities of the affected european union member state may be required to collect back taxes for the period of time covered by the ruling. in late 2015 and early 2016, the ec declared that tax rulings, related to other companies, by tax authorities in luxembourg, the netherlands and belgium did not comply with the european union state aid restrictions. if the ec or tax authorities in other jurisdictions were to successfully challenge tax rulings applicable to us in any of the member states in which we are subject to taxation or our internal intercompany arrangements, we could be exposed to increased tax liabilities. in december 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) that significantly revised the u.s. tax code effective january 1, 2018 by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat 21%, limiting deductibility of interest expense and performance based incentive compensation, transitioning to a territorial system and creating new taxes associated with global operations. the tax act impacted our consolidated results of operations during 2019 and is expected to continue to impact our consolidated results of operations in future periods. in future periods, we expect that our effective tax rate will be impacted by the lower u.s. corporate tax rate that will initially be offset by the elimination of the deductibility of performance-based incentive compensation, and other provisions of the tax act that may impact us prospectively. however, the ultimate impact of the tax act will depend on additional regulatory or accounting guidance that may be issued with respect to the tax act and any operating and structural changes that we may undertake to permit us to benefit from the new, lower u.s. tax rate prospectively. this could adversely affect our results of operations. our business may be negatively impacted as a result of the united kingdom's departure from the european union. we currently manufacture goods in the united kingdom for distribution in the european union and vice-versa and therefore may be adversely affected as a result of the united kingdom's departure from the european union ( brexit ) in 2020. the impact of the withdrawal could, among other outcomes, exacerbate the disruption of the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union, undermine bilateral cooperation in key geographic areas and significantly disrupt trade between the united kingdom and the european union or other nations as the united kingdom pursues independent trade relations. in addition, brexit has caused legal uncertainty, which could last indefinitely, and may potentially create divergent national laws and regulations as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what the financial, trade and legal implications of the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union will be and how the withdrawal will affect us. adverse consequences concerning brexit or the european union could include deterioration in global economic conditions, instability in global financial markets, political uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, or adverse changes in the cross-border agreements currently in place, any of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the future. the expected phase out of the london interbank office rate (libor) could impact the interest rates paid on our variable rate indebtedness and cause our interest expense to increase. in 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. currently there is no definitive information regarding the future utilization of libor or of any particular replacement rate. borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loan are at variable interest rates based on libor. if libor is no longer available, or if our lenders have increased costs due to changes in libor, we may need to amend our debt facilities to replace libor with an agreed upon replacement index, which could result in higher rates and adversely impact our interest expense risks relating to our pending combination with nutrition and biosciences, inc. ( n&amp;b ) as previously announced, on december 15, 2019, we entered into, among other agreements, an agreement and plan of merger (the merger agreement ) with dupont, pursuant to which, subject to closing conditions customary for a transaction of this type, we will combine with dupont's nutrition and biosciences business (the n&amp;b business ). upon completion of our combination with the n&amp;b business (the n&amp;b transaction ), dupont shareholders will own approximately 55.4% of the shares of iff, and existing iff shareholders will own approximately 44.6% of the shares of iff. a proxy statement/prospectus on form s-4 is expected to be filed with the sec pursuant to which iff shareholders will be asked to approve the share issuance required to effect the n&amp;b transaction. we will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the n&amp;b transaction is pending that may have a negative impact on our business. 25 uncertainty about the effect of the pending n&amp;b transaction may have a negative impact on our business, including relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees. these uncertainties may impair our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and could cause customers and others that deal with us to defer or decline entering into contracts with us or making other decisions concerning us or seek to change existing business relationships with us. in addition, if key employees depart because of uncertainty about their future roles and the potential complexities of the transaction, our business could be harmed. furthermore, the merger agreement contains restrictions on our ability to take certain actions outside the ordinary course of business prior to the closing of the transaction, which may delay or prevent us from undertaking certain actions or business opportunities that may arise prior to the closing. for more information, see the merger agreement incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this annual report on form 10-k. we have incurred, and will incur, substantial direct and indirect costs as well as additional debt as a result of the n&amp;b transaction. we have incurred, and will incur, substantial expenses in connection with and as a result of completing the n&amp;b transaction, including financial advisory, legal, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees and expenses, regulatory filings and filing and printing fees, as well as additional debt, thereby significantly increasing our leverage. our leverage and required payments may adversely affect our credit rating, cash flows, operating results or our ability to return capital to our shareholders and the additional debt instruments may subject us to additional covenants. in addition, over a period of time following the closing, we expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with transitioning, integrating and coordinating the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of us and the n&amp;b business. a portion of the transaction costs related to the transaction will be incurred regardless of whether the transaction is completed. while we have assumed that a certain level of transaction expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. these costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations prior to the transaction and of the combined businesses following the transaction. the merger agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the n&amp;b transaction. the merger agreement contains provisions that make it more difficult for us to enter into alternative transactions and provisions that restrict our ability to, among other things, solicit, initiate or knowingly facilitate or encourage the submission of inquiries regarding, or the making of any proposal or offer that constitutes, or would reasonably be expected to lead to, an acquisition proposal from a third party. while we believe these provisions are reasonable and customary for transactions of this type, the provisions might discourage a third party that has an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of us from considering or proposing such acquisition, even if such party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per-share value than the currently proposed transaction consideration. the requirement to obtain governmental approvals to satisfy the conditions to the completion of the n&amp;b transaction may delay or prevent completion of the transaction. the completion of the n&amp;b transaction is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental authorizations, consents, orders or other approvals, including the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended. iff and dupont intend to pursue all required approvals in accordance with the merger agreement. these approvals may impose conditions on or require divestitures relating to the operations or assets of iff or the n&amp;b business, and such conditions or divestitures may jeopardize or delay the completion of the transaction or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction. further, no assurance can be given that the required approvals will be obtained and, even if all such approvals are obtained, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of the approvals or whether they will satisfy the terms of the merger agreement. if we fail to complete the n&amp;b transaction, our business, financial results and stock price could be negatively impacted. the closing of the n&amp;b transaction is subject to numerous conditions. if the n&amp;b transaction is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks and consequences, including the following: we may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay a termination fee of $521.5 million or to reimburse dupont's transaction-related expenses in an amount up to $75 million; we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the transaction, whether or not the transaction is completed, such as significant fees and expenses relating to financial advisory, legal, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees and expenses, regulatory filings and filing and printing fees; and 26 matters relating to the transaction may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management and the expenditure of significant funds in the form of fees and expenses, which could otherwise have been devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us. in addition, if the n&amp;b transaction is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our employees, clients and customers. we could also be subject to litigation, including litigation related to failure to complete the transaction or to enforce our obligations under the merger agreement. if the n&amp;b transaction is not consummated, there can be no assurance that the risks described above will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock price. the integration of the n&amp;b business with iff may present significant challenges, and we may not realize anticipated synergies and other benefits of the n&amp;b transaction. the combination of independent businesses is complex, costly and time-consuming, and combining our and the n&amp;b business' practices and operations may divert significant management attention and resources and disrupt our business. the failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our business activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. the overall combination of our business and the n&amp;b business may also result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customer and other business relationships. the difficulties of integration include, among others: the diversion of management attention to integration matters; integrating operations and systems, including intellectual property and communications systems, administrative and information technology infrastructure and financial reporting and internal control systems, some of which may prove to be incompatible; conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the businesses; integrating employees and attracting and retaining key personnel, including talent; retaining existing, and obtaining new customers and suppliers; managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; contingent liabilities that are larger than expected; and potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the transaction. many of these factors are outside of our control and/or will be outside the control of the n&amp;b business, and any one of them could result in lower revenues, higher costs and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of our business. in addition, even if the operations of our business and the n&amp;b business are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the transaction may not be realized, including, among others, the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our business and the n&amp;b business. all of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of iff, decrease or delay the projected accretive effect of the transaction, and negatively impact the price of iff common stock following the transaction. current iff shareholders' percentage ownership interest in iff will be substantially diluted in the n&amp;b transaction. the iff common stock outstanding on a fully-diluted basis immediately prior to the n&amp;b transaction will represent, in the aggregate, approximately 44.6% of iff common stock outstanding on a fully-diluted basis immediately following the transaction. consequently, iff's pre-transaction equity holders, as a group, will be substantially diluted in the transaction and have less ability to exercise influence over the management and policies of iff following the transaction. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia, russia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. for the year ended december 31, 2019 , our exposure to market risk was estimated using sensitivity analyses, which illustrate the change in the fair value of a derivative financial instrument assuming hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding twelve months. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2019 , our foreign currency exposures pertaining to derivative contracts exist with the euro, japanese yen, british pound, australian dollar and indonesian rupiah. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the applicable balance sheet exchange rates (primarily against the u.s. dollar), the estimated fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts would increase by approximately $10 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. we have entered into certain cross currency swap agreements in order to mitigate a portion of our net european investments from foreign currency risk. as of december 31, 2018, these swaps were in a net liability position with an aggregate fair value of $4.2 million . based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro, the estimated fair value of our cross currency swaps would change by approximately $60 million. at december 31, 2019 , the fair value of our eur fixed rate debt was 1.9 billion . based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in foreign exchange rates, the estimated fair value of our eur fixed debt would change by approximately $200 million. at december 31, 2019 , the fair value of our usd fixed rate debt was $2.5 billion . based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in interest rates, the estimated fair value of our us fixed debt would change by approximately $250 million. we purchase certain commodities, such as natural gas, electricity, petroleum based products and certain crop related items. we generally purchase these commodities based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the purchase process. in general, we do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge commodity prices.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information on quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in response to the disclosure requirements specified by this item 7a appears in note 14 on page 43 of the iff 2000 annual report. such information is incorporated by reference in this item 7a.risk factors 7 risk factors. the following are some important factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from those referred to or implied in any forward-looking statement. these are in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report of form 10-k and in the company other filings with the securities and exchange commission. the current volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. the volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets since mid-2008 has rapidly impacted global economic conditions, resulting in significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. these conditions have led to economic contractions in the developed economies and reduced growth rates in the emerging markets. despite fiscal and monetary intervention, it is possible that further declines in consumer spending and global growth rates may occur in the foreseeable future. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations, and changes in the level of inventory at our customers, which may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. the impact of the credit crisis and economic slowdown will vary by region and country. the diversity of our geographic customer and operating footprint limits our reliance and exposure to any single economy. these conditions have also resulted in a substantial tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions and in the commercial paper market, both of which are sources of credit for our borrowing and liquidity. this tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. based on our latest discussions, we believe that the financial institutions syndicated under our revolving credit facility are able to fulfill their commitments as of our filing date. it is difficult to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, whether they will continue to deteriorate and which aspects of our products or business could be adversely affected. however, if current levels of economic and capital and credit market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, the cost of and access to capital and credit markets, and our results of operations. in addition, we monitor the financial condition of our customers on a regular basis based on public information or data provided directly to us. if the financial condition of one of our major customers was negatively impacted by market conditions or liquidity, we could be adversely impacted in terms of accounts receivable and/or inventory specifically attributable to them. failure to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods may adversely impact sales and our results of operations. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to identify current products standards, assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, monitor internal and external performance, test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product non-compliance. if a non-compliance event went undetected, we could be subject to customer claims, penalties, litigation costs and/or settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. competitive factors may negatively impact our sales and marketability. the market for flavors and fragrances is fragmented and highly competitive. iff competes with many companies and some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product segments while others participate 7 table of contents in many of the same segments. in addition, some of our competitors may have greater financial and technical resources. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on sales and profitability. we are subject to economic and social changes which may impact sales. demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits resulting from factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world population. changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could adversely impact our results of operations. approximately 60% of our sales occur in the developed markets of north america, western europe and australasia with the remainder in emerging markets. accordingly, the impact on our operations will depend upon consumer spending on products for which we supply the flavor or fragrance in these global markets. results may be negatively impacted by the price, quality and availability of raw materials. raw materials are purchased from many sources from all over the world, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits and organic chemicals. disruptions in the supply or quality of ingredients or rising prices for ingredients purchased could adversely impact our results of operations and profitability. historically, we have experienced the greatest amount of volatility in natural products that represent approximately 50% of raw material purchases. availability and pricing of these products can be impacted by crop size and quality, demand balance or alternative land use. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels covering multiple periods for critical items and/or time purchases to capitalize on favorable market conditions. results may be negatively impacted by the inability to implement our business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability or growth targets. we are committed to those particular business strategies and market segments that have been identified as likely to drive profitable future growth and improve operations and customer service. if we are unable to successfully and timely implement these strategies, it would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. results may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in principal foreign markets and the effectiveness of hedging and risk management strategies. our operations are conducted in many countries, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and may continue to do so in the future. we employ a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities. however, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our reported results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. results may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. we are involved in a number of legal claims. while we believe that related insurance coverage is adequate with respect to such claims, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. 8 table of contents results and cash flows may be negatively impacted by future pension funding and other postretirement obligations. we establish assumptions concerning discount rates and actuarial assumptions regarding pension funding and other postretirement benefit obligations based on current market conditions, plan participants, asset returns, interest rates and other factors. changes in pension and other postretirement benefits, plan assets, and associated expenses may occur in the future due to changes in capital markets, employee demographics and actuarial assumptions. these changes may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. results may be negatively impacted by the effect of legal and regulatory requirements, as well as restrictions imposed on operations by foreign and domestic governmental entities. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation in the united states by the food and drug administration, the agriculture department, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms, the environmental protection agency, the occupational safety and health administration, the drug enforcement administration and state authorities. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. our foreign operations are subject to similar substantial governmental regulation and oversight standards in a number of countries, including extensive requirements within the european union. costs or investments necessary to maintain compliance with existing or future governmental regulations may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we may face risks associated with events which may affect the world economy. world events such as terrorist attacks, or regional conflicts have and may in the future weaken world economies. any resulting weaknesses in these economies may adversely affect our business or the businesses of our customers, with a resultant negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding six months. the notional amount and maturity dates of such contracts match those of the underlying transactions. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. in february 2003, we executed a 10-year yen - u.s. dollar currency swap related to the monthly sale and purchase of products between the u.s. and japan, which is designated as a cash flow hedge. the annual notional value of this swap is approximately $5 million. the associated asset or liability on the open hedge instrument is recorded in current assets or current liabilities, as applicable. gains and losses related to this swap are recorded currently, and the mark-to-market adjustment related to the value of the swap is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ). 33 table of contents in addition to the foreign exchange forward contracts noted above, we use non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign exchange swap agreements, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates, primarily in the european union. these foreign exchange swap agreements are designated as hedges of net investments. in september 2007 and january 2006, we entered into a $250 million and a $300 million cross currency interest rate swap, respectively, to hedge a portion of our consolidated eur net investment. the derivative was structured as a swap of floating usd libor to floating euribor, with both floating interest rates reset and paid semi-annually. because the derivative is structured as a floating to floating swap, the only value, other than that derived from changes in the spot foreign exchange (fx) rate, are interest rate accruals which are reset semi-annually. these accruals are netted and booked in current earnings. mark-to-market changes due to differences in the underlying fx rate are recorded in aoci and provide an offset to the cumulative translation adjustment of the underlying euro net investments being hedged. effectiveness is assessed quarterly. at maturity, or if the swaps are terminated early, any gain or loss will not be recorded to earnings, but will be recorded to aoci until the eur net investment is divested. in october 2008, we closed out the $250 million usd libor to euribor interest rate swap at no cost. in february 2009 we terminated the $300 million usd libor to euribor interest rate swap which required us to make a payment of $16 million. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed to floating rate interest rate swaps. in september 2007, we entered into a $250 million interest rate swap agreement effectively converting the fixed rate on our long-term u.s. dollar borrowings to a variable short-term rate based on usd libor rate plus markup. in march 2008, we realized an $18 million gain on termination of this swap, which has been deferred and is being amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining term of the related debt. during 2008, we entered into a similar interest rate swap and then in october 2008 we liquidated this position at no cost. in addition, in 2005, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements effectively converting the fixed rate on our long-term japanese yen borrowings to a variable short-term rate based on the japanese yen tibor rate plus markup. these swaps are designated as qualified fair value hedges. in november 2008, the portion of these swaps related to the 13.3 billion yen notes refinanced, expired. swap contracts are generally held to maturity and are intended to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. to the extent we have not received cash or otherwise amended or settled any swap agreements, any applicable mark-to-market adjustment relating to that swap is included as a separate component of debt. the following table summarizes our derivatives outstanding as of december 31, 2008. these swaps were all effective under fas 133. notional amount 300,000,000 1,818,000,000 50,000,000 currency usd jpy usd description cross currency interest rate swap (usd/eur) interest rate swap 10 year cross currency swap (jpy/usd) hedged risk foreign exchange risk (1) the risk of changes in fair value attributable to interest rate risk (2) the variability of cash flows attributable to foreign exchange risk (3) method used to test for effectiveness: (1) quarterly hedge effectiveness is tested using the forward rate method. we use a hypothetical derivative on an after-tax basis, and ensure that the hedged amount is less then the designated euro net investment. we ensure that the terms of the hedging instrument have not changed and perform a review of counterparty creditworthiness. (2) changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged are expected to be completely offset by the hedging derivative because the critical terms of the interest rate swap and the hedged debt match (i.e., the currency, notional amount, timing and date of interest payments). quarterly hedge effectiveness testing includes ensuring the terms of the hedging instrument and the debt have not changed and reviewing counterparty creditworthiness. 34 table of contents (3) changes in cash flow attributable to the risk being hedged are expected to be completely offset by the hedging derivative because the critical terms of the cross currency swap and the forecasted transaction match (i.e., the currency, notional amount and timing). quarterly hedge effectiveness testing includes reviewing counterparty creditworthiness, ensuring the probability of hedged forecasted transactions has not changed and ensuring the terms of the hedging instrument have not changed. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. market exposures are evaluated using a sensitivity model that is intended to measure the potential 10% loss in interest rate and foreign exchange financial instruments, assuming adverse market conditions occur. historical interest rates and foreign exchange rates are used to estimate the volatility and correlation of future rates. the estimated maximum potential one-day loss in fair value of interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated using the sensitivity model, is not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in 2008, 2007 and 2006. the estimated maximum yearly loss in earnings due to interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated utilizing the sensitivity model, is not material to our results of operations in 2008, 2007 and 2006. actual results in the future may differ materially from these projected results due to actual developments in the global financial markets. the foreign currency and interest rate swap contracts existing during 2008 and 2007 were entered into for the purpose of seeking to mitigate the risk of certain specific adverse currency and interest rate risks. as a result of these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) that might have occurred if the markets moved favorably. in using these contracts, management exchanged the risks of the financial markets for counterparty risk. counterparty risk arises from the inability of a counterparty to meet its obligations. to mitigate counterparty risk, we entered into derivative contracts with major leading financial institutions that have credit ratings equal to or better than our credit rating.risk factors 7 risk factors. the following are some important factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from those referred to or implied in any forward-looking statement. these are in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report of form 10-k and in the company other filings with the securities and exchange commission. the current volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. the volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets since mid-2008 has rapidly impacted global economic conditions, resulting in significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. these conditions led to economic contractions in the developed economies and reduced growth rates in the emerging markets. recent conditions have begun to improve, although potential volatility continues to exist. despite fiscal and monetary intervention, it is possible that further declines in, or depressed levels of consumer spending and global growth rates may occur in the foreseeable future. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations, and changes in the level of inventory at our customers, which may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. the impact of the credit crisis and economic slowdown will vary by region and country. the diversity of our geographic customer and operating footprint limits our reliance and exposure to any single economy. 7 table of contents these conditions have also resulted in a substantial tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions and in the commercial paper market, both of which are sources of credit for our borrowing and liquidity. this tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. based on our latest discussions, we believe that the financial institutions syndicated under our revolving credit facility are able to fulfill their commitments as of our filing date. while conditions have improved recently, it is difficult to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, whether they will deteriorate and which aspects of our products or business could be adversely affected. however, if current levels of economic and capital and credit market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, the cost of and access to capital and credit markets, and our results of operations. in addition, we monitor the financial condition of our customers on a regular basis based on public information or data provided directly to us. if the financial condition of one of our major customers was negatively impacted by market conditions, liquidity, or other adverse events, we could be adversely impacted in terms of sales potential, excess capacity, accounts receivable and/or inventory specifically attributable to them. failure to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods may adversely impact sales and our results of operations, iff reputation and litigation costs. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to identify current products standards, assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, monitor internal and external performance and test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance. if a non-compliance event went undetected, we could be subject to customer claims, penalties, litigation costs and/or settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. these consequences would be exacerbated if our customer did not identify the defect and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. this could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity and potential consumer litigation. competitive factors may negatively impact our sales and marketability. the market for flavors and fragrances is fragmented and highly competitive. iff competes with many companies and some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product segments while others participate in many of the same segments. in addition, some of our competitors may have greater financial and technical resources. the discovery and development of new flavor and fragrance materials, protection of the company intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are important issues in our ability to compete in our businesses. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on sales and profitability. we are subject to economic and social changes which may impact sales. demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits resulting from factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world population. changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could materially adversely impact our results of operations. nearly 56% of our sales occur in the developed markets of north america, western europe and australasia with the remainder in emerging markets. accordingly, the impact on our operations will depend upon consumer spending on products for which we supply the flavor or fragrance in these global markets. results may be negatively impacted by the price, quality and availability of raw materials. raw materials are purchased from many sources from all over the world, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits and organic chemicals. disruptions in the supply or quality of ingredients or rising prices for ingredients purchased could adversely impact our results of operations and profitability. historically, we have experienced the greatest amount of volatility in natural products that represent approximately 50% of raw material purchases. availability and pricing of these products, such as citrus, can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather, demand balance or alternative land use. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels covering multiple periods for critical items and/or time purchases to capitalize on favorable market conditions. 8 table of contents results may be negatively impacted by the inability to implement our business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability or growth targets. we are committed to those particular business strategies and market segments that have been identified as likely to drive profitable future growth and improve operations and customer service. if we are unable to successfully and timely implement these strategies, it would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. results may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in principal foreign markets and the effectiveness of hedging and risk management strategies. our operations are conducted in many countries, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and may continue to do so in the future. we employ a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities. however, volatility in currency exchange rates may materially adversely impact our reported results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. results may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. we are involved in a number of legal claims. while we believe that related insurance coverage is adequate with respect to such claims, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. results and cash flows may be negatively impacted by future pension funding and other postretirement obligations. we establish assumptions concerning discount rates and actuarial assumptions regarding pension funding and other postretirement benefit obligations based on current market conditions, plan participants, asset returns, interest rates and other factors. changes in pension and other postretirement benefits, plan assets, and associated expenses may occur in the future due to changes in capital markets, employee demographics and actuarial assumptions. these changes may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. results may be negatively impacted by the effect of legal and regulatory requirements, as well as restrictions imposed on operations by foreign and domestic governmental entities. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation in the united states by the food and drug administration, the department of agriculture, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms, the environmental protection agency, the occupational safety and health administration, the drug enforcement administration and state authorities. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. our foreign operations are subject to similar substantial governmental regulation and oversight standards in a number of countries, including extensive requirements within the european union. costs or investments necessary to maintain compliance with existing or future governmental regulations may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we may face risks associated with events which may affect the world economy. world events such as terrorist attacks, or regional conflicts have and may in the future weaken world economies. any resulting weaknesses in these economies may materially adversely affect our business or the businesses of our customers, with a resultant negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 9 table of contents our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. any shortfall in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. the ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products that meet the needs of our customers. however, we cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. any shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to operate successfully, retain our existing customers, grow our business, and effectively compete with our competitors. our operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations. the availability of raw materials and energy supplies fluctuate in markets throughout the world. climate change may also effect the availability and price of key raw materials, including natural products used in the manufacture of our products. in order to mitigate the risk of price increases and shortages, purchasing has developed various sourcing strategies including multiple suppliers, inventory management systems, various geographic suppliers and long term agreements to mitigate risk. in addition to market forces there are various regulatory efforts relating to climate change that may increase the cost of raw materials, especially energy used to operate our facilities that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our future results. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in reserves and contingencies, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. in addition, the current administration and congress have announced proposals for new u.s. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. any of these changes could have a material adverse affect on our profitability. we are also subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding twelve months. the notional amount and maturity dates of such contracts match those of the underlying transactions. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. we have also used non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates, primarily in the european union. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed to floating rate interest rate swaps. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. market exposures are evaluated using a sensitivity model that is intended to measure the potential 10% loss in interest rate and foreign currency forward contracts, assuming adverse market conditions occur. historical interest rates and foreign exchange rates are used to estimate the volatility and correlation of future rates. the estimated maximum potential one-day loss in fair value of interest rate or foreign currency forward contracts, calculated using the sensitivity model, is not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in 2010. the estimated maximum yearly loss in earnings due to interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated utilizing the sensitivity model, is not material to our results of operations in 2010. actual results in the future may differ materially from these projected results due to actual developments in the global financial markets. 37 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information on quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk required by this item 7a appears in note 14 on page 48 of the iff 2001 annual report. such information is incorporated by reference in this item 7a. 9quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information on quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk required by this item 7a appears in note 15 on page 50 of the iff 2002 annual report. such information is incorporated by reference in this item 7a.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in 2001, the company entered into certain interest swap agreements effectively converting the fixed coupon rate on its 6.45% notes to a variable short-term rate based on the london interbank offered rate (libor) plus an interest markup. in response to changes in market conditions and the value of the swaps and, in 2003, in connection with the company's debt repurchase, the company periodically amended the swap agreements, changing the related interest spread. as a result of these amendments, the counterparty paid the company $11.6 million, $56.5 million and $19.9 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, including accrued interest of $3.7 million, $6.5 million and $3.3 million, respectively. the net realized gains on the swaps have been deferred, classified as a separate component of debt, and are amortized as a reduction in interest expense over the remaining term of the notes. at december 31, 2003, the company had terminated all swap agreements related to the notes; as a result, the interest rate on the notes, including amortization of the deferred swap gains, was 3.6% at december 31, 2003. the effective rate on the notes at december 31, 2002 and 2001 was 3.4% and 3.7%, respectively. in 2002, the company entered into certain interest swap agreements effectively converting the fixed rate on its long-term japanese yen borrowings to a variable short-term rate based on the japanese yen libor rate plus an interest markup. these swaps are designated as qualified fair value hedges. during 2003, the company amended the swap and the counterparty paid the company $3.0 million, including accrued interest of $0.5 million. these net gains have been deferred, are classified as a separate component of debt and are being amortized over the remaining term of the debt. to the extent the company has not received cash or otherwise amended or settled any swap agreement, any applicable mark-to-market adjustment relating to that swap is included as a separate component of debt. the company had no ineffective interest rate swaps at december 31, 2003. the company has executed a 10-year yen u.s. dollar currency swap related to the purchase and sale of products between the u.s. and japan. the annual notional value of this swap is approximately $5.0 million. gains and losses related to this swap are recorded currently, and the mark-to-market adjustment related to the value of the swap is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. the company enters into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding six months. the notional amount and maturity dates of such contracts match those of the underlying transactions. at december 31, 2003 and 2002, the company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts of $178.0 million and $131.4 million, respectively. the company has designated these contracts as qualified fair value and cash flow hedges, as appropriate. the company had no ineffective foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2003 or 2002.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in 2001, the company entered into certain interest swap agreements effectively converting the fixed coupon rate on its 6.45% notes to a variable short-term rate based on the london interbank offered rate ("libor") plus an interest markup. in response to changes in market conditions and the value of the swaps and, in 2003, in connection with the company's debt repurchase, the company periodically amended the swap agreements, changing the related interest spread. as a result of these amendments, the counterparty paid the company $11.6 million and $56.5 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively, including accrued interest of $3.7 million and $6.5 million, respectively. the net realized gains on the swaps have been deferred, classified as a separate component of debt, and are amortized as a reduction in interest expense over the remaining term of the notes. prior to december 31, 2003, the company terminated all swap agreements related to the notes; as a result, the interest rate on the notes, including amortization of the deferred swap gains, was 3.4% at december 31, 2004. the effective rate on the notes at december 31, 2003 and 2002 was 3.6% and 3.4%, respectively. in 2002, the company entered into certain interest swap agreements effectively converting the fixed rate on its long-term japanese yen borrowings to a variable short-term rate based on the japanese yen libor rate plus an interest markup. these swaps are designated as qualified fair value hedges. during 2003, the company amended the swaps and the counterparty paid the company $3.0 million, including accrued interest of $0.5 million. these net gains have been deferred, are classified as a separate component of debt and are being amortized over the remaining term of the debt. to the extent the company has not received cash or otherwise amended or settled any swap agreements, any applicable mark-to-market adjustment relating to that swap is included as a separate component of debt. the company had no ineffective interest rate swaps at december 31, 2004. the company has executed a 10-year yen - u.s. dollar currency swap related to the purchase and sale of products between the u.s. and japan. the annual notional value of this swap is approximately $5.0 million. gains and losses related to this swap are recorded currently, and the mark-to-market adjustment related to the value of the swap is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. the company enters into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding six months. the notional amount and maturity dates of such contracts match those of the underlying transactions. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, the company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts of $383.2 million and $178.0 million, respectively. the company has designated these contracts as qualified fair value and cash flow hedges, as appropriate. the company had no ineffective foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2004 or 2003. the company also uses derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign currency exposures resulting from firm purchase commitments or anticipated transactions, and classifies these as cash flow hedges. the company generally enters into cash flow hedge contracts for periods ranging from three to twelve months. the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, and is reclassified into earnings as the transactions being hedged are recorded. the associated asset or liability on the open hedge is recorded in other assets or other liabilities as applicable. the foreign exchange gain recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income that will be reflected in earnings in 2005 was $1.3 million, net of tax, at december 31, 2004; the prior year comparable amount was $1.4 million. the ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instruments was not material.risk factors 8 risk factors. competitive factors may negatively impact our sales and marketability. the market for flavor and fragrance products is fragmented and highly competitive. iff competes with many companies and some of the company's competitors specialize in one or more of our product lines while others sell many of the same product lines. in addition, some competitors may have greater financial and technical resources. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the need for the company to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on sales and profitability. the company is subject to economic and social changes which may impact sales. demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits resulting from factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world population. changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could adversely impact our results of operations. results may be negatively impacted by the price, quality and availability of raw materials. raw materials are purchased from many sources from all over the world, including essential oils, extracts and concentrate derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits and organic chemicals. disruptions in the supply or quality of ingredients or rising prices for ingredients purchased could adversely impact results of operations and profitability of the company. results may be negatively impacted by the inability to implement the company&rsquo;s business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability or growth targets. the company is committed to those particular business strategies which have been identified as likely to drive profitable future growth and improve operations and customer service. if the company is unable to successfully and timely implement these strategies, it would adversely impact the financial condition and results of operations of the company. 8 results may be negatively impacted by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in principal foreign markets and the effectiveness of hedging and risk management strategies. the company&rsquo;s operations are conducted in many countries, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and may continue to do so in the future. the company employs a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. however, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact the company&rsquo;s reported results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the company&rsquo;s results may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. the company is involved in a number of legal claims. while the company believes that related insurance coverage is adequate with respect to such claims, the company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, the company cannot provide assurance that future events will not require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. the company&rsquo;s results and cash flows may be negatively impacted by future pension funding and other postretirement obligations. the company establishes assumptions concerning discount rates and actuarial assumptions regarding pension funding and other postretirement benefit obligations based on current market conditions, plan participants, asset returns, interest rates and other factors. changes in pension and other postretirement benefits, and associated expenses, may occur in the future due to changes in demographics and assumptions. these changes may adversely impact the company&rsquo;s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. the company&rsquo;s results may be negatively impacted by the effect of legal and regulatory requirements, as well as restrictions imposed on operations by foreign and domestic governmental entities. manufacture and sale of the company's products are subject to regulation in the united states by the food and drug administration, the agriculture department, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms, the environmental protection agency, the occupational safety and health administration, the drug enforcement administration and state authorities. foreign operations of the company are subject to similar governmental regulation in a number of countries. compliance with existing governmental requirements and future governmental regulations may adversely impact the company&rsquo;s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. the company may face risks associated with events which may affect the world economy. world events such as terrorist attacks, the current u.s. military action in the middle east and elsewhere, and hostilities in the middle east, asia and other geographical areas, have and may in the future weaken the u.s. and world economies. any resulting weaknesses in these economies may adversely affect the company&rsquo;s business or the businesses of our customers, with a resultant negative impact on the company&rsquo;s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34risk factors 7 risk factors. competitive factors may negatively impact our sales and marketability. the market for flavor and fragrance products is fragmented and highly competitive. iff competes with many companies and some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product lines while others sell many of the same product lines. in addition, some of our competitors may have greater financial and technical resources. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on sales and profitability. we are subject to economic and social changes which may impact sales. demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits resulting from factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world population. changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could adversely impact our results of operations. the current macro-economic environment in the united states and western europe may adversely impact consumer spending on products for which we supply the flavor or fragrance. results may be negatively impacted by the price, quality and availability of raw materials. raw materials are purchased from many sources from all over the world, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits and organic chemicals. disruptions in the supply or quality of ingredients or rising prices for ingredients purchased could adversely impact our results of operations and profitability. results may be negatively impacted by the inability to implement our business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability or growth targets. we are committed to those particular business strategies which have been identified as likely to drive profitable future growth and improve operations and customer service. if we are unable to successfully and timely implement these strategies, it would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. results may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in principal foreign markets and the effectiveness of hedging and risk management strategies. our operations are conducted in many countries, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and may continue to do so in the future. we employ a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. however, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our reported results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. results may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. we are involved in a number of legal claims. while we believe that related insurance coverage is adequate with respect to such claims, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. 7 table of contents results and cash flows may be negatively impacted by future pension funding and other postretirement obligations. we establish assumptions concerning discount rates and actuarial assumptions regarding pension funding and other postretirement benefit obligations based on current market conditions, plan participants, asset returns, interest rates and other factors. changes in pension and other postretirement benefits, and associated expenses, may occur in the future due to changes in demographics and assumptions. these changes may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. results may be negatively impacted by the effect of legal and regulatory requirements, as well as restrictions imposed on operations by foreign and domestic governmental entities. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation in the united states by the food and drug administration, the agriculture department, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms, the environmental protection agency, the occupational safety and health administration, the drug enforcement administration and state authorities. our foreign operations are subject to similar substantial governmental regulation in a number of countries, including extensive new requirements within the european union. compliance with existing governmental requirements and future governmental regulations may adversely impact financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we may face risks associated with events which may affect the world economy. world events such as terrorist attacks, or regional conflicts have and may in the future weaken world economies. any resulting weaknesses in these economies may adversely affect our business or the businesses of our customers, with a resultant negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally i nvolve the exchange of one 31 table of contents currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding six months. the notional amount and maturity dates of such contracts match those of the underlying transactions. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. in february 2003, we executed a 10-year yen &minus; u.s. dollar currency swap related to the monthly sale and purchase of products between the u.s. and japan, which is designated as a cash flow hedge. the annual notional value of this swap is approximately $5 million. the associated asset or liability on the open hedge instrument is recorded in current assets or current liabilities, as applicable. gains and losses related to this swap are recorded currently, and the mark-to-market adjustment related to the value of the swap is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (&lsquo;&lsquo;aoci&rsquo;&rsquo;). in addition to the foreign exchange forward contracts noted above, we use non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign exchange swap agreements, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates, primarily in the european union. these foreign exchange swap agreements are designated as hedges of net investments. in september 2007 and january 2006, we entered into a $250 million and a $300 million cross currency interest rate swap, respectively, to hedge a portion of our consolidated eur net investment. the derivative was structured as a swap of floating usd libor to floating euribor, with both floating interest rates reset and paid semi-annually. because the derivative is structured as a floating to floating swap, the only value, other than that derived from changes in the spot foreign exchange (fx) rate, are interest rate accruals which are reset semi-annually. these accruals are netted and booked in curren t earnings. mark-to-market changes due to differences in the underlying fx rate are recorded in aoci and provide an offset to the cumulative translation adjustment of the underlying euro net investments being hedged. effectiveness is assessed quarterly. at maturity, or if the swaps are terminated early, any gain or loss will not be recorded to earnings, but will be recorded to aoci until the eur net investment is divested. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed to floating rate interest rate swaps. in september 2007, we entered into a $250 million interest rate swap agreement effectively converting the fixed rate on our long-term u.s. dollar borrowings to a variable short-term rate based on usd libor rate plus markup. in addition, in 2005, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements effectively converting the fixed rate on our long-term japanese yen borrowings to a variable short-term rate based on the japanese yen libor rate plus markup. these swaps are designated as qualified fair value hedges. swap contracts are generally held to maturity and are intended to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. to the extent we have not received cash or otherwise amended or settled any swap agreements, any applicable mark-to-market adjust ment relating to that swap is included as a separate component of debt. the following table summarizes our derivatives outstanding as of december 31, 2007. these swaps were all effective under fas 133. notional amount 300,000,000 250,000,000 15,150,000,000 50,000,000 250,000,000 currency usd usd jpy usd usd description cross currency interest rate swap (usd/eur) cross currency interest rate swap (usd/eur) interest rate swap 10 year cross currency swap (jpy/usd) interest rate swap hedged risk foreign exchange risk (1) foreign exchange risk (1) the risk of changes in fair value attributable to interest rate risk (2) the variability of cash flows attributable to foreign exchange risk (3) the risk of changes in fair value attributable to interest rate risk (2) method used to test for effectiveness: (1) quarterly hedge effectiveness is tested using spot-to-spot methodology. we use a hypothetical derivative on an after-tax basis, and ensure that the hedged amount is less then the designated euro net investment. we ensure that the terms of the hedging instrument have not changed and perform a review of counterparty creditworthiness. (2) changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged are expected to be completely offset by the 32 table of contents hedging derivative because the critical terms of the interest rate swap and the hedged debt match (i.e., the currency, notional amount, timing and date of interest payments). quarterly hedge effectiveness testing includes ensuring the terms of the hedging instrument and the debt have not changed and reviewing counterparty creditworthiness. (3) changes in cash flow attributable to the risk being hedged are expected to be completely offset by the hedging derivative because the critical terms of the cross currency swap and the forecasted transaction match (i.e., the currency, notional amount and timing). quarterly hedge effectiveness testing includes reviewing counterparty creditworthiness, ensuring the probability of hedged forecasted transactions has not changed and ensuring the terms of the hedging instrument have not changed. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. market exposures are evaluated using a sensitivity model that is intended to measure the potential 10% loss in interest rate and foreign exchange financial instruments, assuming adverse market conditions occur. historical interest rates and foreign exchange rates are used to estimate the volatility and correlation of future rates. the estimated maximum potential one-day loss in fair value of interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated using the sensitivity model, is not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in 2007, 2006 and 2005. the estimated maximum yearly loss in earnings due to interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated utilizing the sensitivity model, is not material to our results of operations in 2007, 2006 and 2005. actual results in the future may differ materially from these projected results due to actual developments in the global financial markets. the foreign currency and interest rate swap contracts existing during 2007 and 2006 were entered into for the purpose of seeking to mitigate the risk of certain specific adverse currency and interest rate risks. as a result of these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) that might have occurred if the markets moved favorably. in using these contracts, management exchanged the risks of the financial markets for counterparty risk. counterparty risk arises from the inability of a counterparty to meet its obligations. to mitigate counterparty risk, we entered into derivative contracts with major leading financial institutions that have credit ratings equal to or better than our credit rating.risk factors 7 risk factors. the following are some important factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from those referred to or implied in any forward-looking statement. these are in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report of form 10-k and in the company other filings with the securities and exchange commission. the current volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. the volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets since mid-2008 has rapidly impacted global economic conditions, resulting in significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. these conditions have led to economic contractions in the developed economies and reduced growth rates in the emerging markets. despite fiscal and monetary intervention, it is possible that further declines in consumer spending and global growth rates may occur in the foreseeable future. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations, and changes in the level of inventory at our customers, which may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. the impact of the credit crisis and economic slowdown will vary by region and country. the diversity of our geographic customer and operating footprint limits our reliance and exposure to any single economy. 7 table of contents these conditions have also resulted in a substantial tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions and in the commercial paper market, both of which are sources of credit for our borrowing and liquidity. this tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. based on our latest discussions, we believe that the financial institutions syndicated under our revolving credit facility are able to fulfill their commitments as of our filing date. it is difficult to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, whether they will continue to deteriorate and which aspects of our products or business could be adversely affected. however, if current levels of economic and capital and credit market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, the cost of and access to capital and credit markets, and our results of operations. in addition, we monitor the financial condition of our customers on a regular basis based on public information or data provided directly to us. if the financial condition of one of our major customers was negatively impacted by market conditions or liquidity, we could be adversely impacted in terms of accounts receivable and/or inventory specifically attributable to them. failure to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods may adversely impact sales and our results of operations, iff reputation and litigation costs. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to identify current products standards, assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, monitor internal and external performance and test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product non-compliance. if a non-compliance event went undetected, we could be subject to customer claims, penalties, litigation costs and/or settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. these consequences would be exacerbated if our customer did not identify the defect and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. this could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity and potential consumer litigation. competitive factors may negatively impact our sales and marketability. the market for flavors and fragrances is fragmented and highly competitive. iff competes with many companies and some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product segments while others participate in many of the same segments. in addition, some of our competitors may have greater financial and technical resources. the discovery and development of new flavor and fragrance materials, protection of the company intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are important issues in our ability to compete in our businesses. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on sales and profitability. we are subject to economic and social changes which may impact sales. demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits resulting from factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world population. changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could adversely impact our results of operations. nearly 60% of our sales occur in the developed markets of north america, western europe and australasia with the remainder in emerging markets. accordingly, the impact on our operations will depend upon consumer spending on products for which we supply the flavor or fragrance in these global markets. results may be negatively impacted by the price, quality and availability of raw materials. raw materials are purchased from many sources from all over the world, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits 8 table of contents and organic chemicals. disruptions in the supply or quality of ingredients or rising prices for ingredients purchased could adversely impact our results of operations and profitability. historically, we have experienced the greatest amount of volatility in natural products that represent approximately 50% of raw material purchases. availability and pricing of these products can be impacted by crop size and quality, demand balance or alternative land use. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels covering multiple periods for critical items and/or time purchases to capitalize on favorable market conditions. results may be negatively impacted by the inability to implement our business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability or growth targets. we are committed to those particular business strategies and market segments that have been identified as likely to drive profitable future growth and improve operations and customer service. if we are unable to successfully and timely implement these strategies, it would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. results may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in principal foreign markets and the effectiveness of hedging and risk management strategies. our operations are conducted in many countries, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and may continue to do so in the future. we employ a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities. however, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our reported results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. results may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. we are involved in a number of legal claims. while we believe that related insurance coverage is adequate with respect to such claims, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. results and cash flows may be negatively impacted by future pension funding and other postretirement obligations. we establish assumptions concerning discount rates and actuarial assumptions regarding pension funding and other postretirement benefit obligations based on current market conditions, plan participants, asset returns, interest rates and other factors. changes in pension and other postretirement benefits, plan assets, and associated expenses may occur in the future due to changes in capital markets, employee demographics and actuarial assumptions. these changes may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. results may be negatively impacted by the effect of legal and regulatory requirements, as well as restrictions imposed on operations by foreign and domestic governmental entities. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation in the united states by the food and drug administration, the department of agriculture, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms, the environmental protection agency, the occupational safety and health administration, the drug enforcement administration and state authorities. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. our foreign operations are subject to similar substantial governmental regulation and oversight standards in a number of countries, including extensive requirements within the european union. costs or investments necessary to maintain compliance with existing or future governmental regulations may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 9 table of contents we may face risks associated with events which may affect the world economy. world events such as terrorist attacks, or regional conflicts have and may in the future weaken world economies. any resulting weaknesses in these economies may adversely affect our business or the businesses of our customers, with a resultant negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. any shortfall in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. however, we cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. any shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to operate successfully, grow our business, and effectively compete with our competitors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding six months. the notional amount and maturity dates of such contracts match those of the underlying transactions. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. in february 2003, we executed a 10-year yen u.s. dollar currency swap related to the monthly sale and purchase of products and services between the u.s. and japan, which is designated as a cash flow hedge. the annual notional value of this swap is approximately $5 million. the associated asset or liability on the open hedge instrument is recorded in current assets or current liabilities, as applicable. gains and losses related to this swap are recorded currently, and the mark-to-market adjustment related to the value of the swap is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ). in addition to the foreign exchange forward contracts noted above, we have used non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign exchange swap agreements, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates, primarily in the european union. these foreign exchange swap agreements are designated as hedges of net investments. in september 2007 and january 2006, we entered into a $250 million and a $300 million cross currency interest rate swap, respectively, to hedge a portion of our consolidated eur net investment. the derivative was structured as a swap of floating usd libor to floating euribor, with both floating interest rates reset and paid semi-annually. because the derivative is structured as a floating to floating swap, the only value, other than that derived from changes in the spot foreign exchange (fx) rate, are interest rate accruals which are reset semi-annually. these accruals are netted and booked in current earnings. mark-to-market changes due to differences in the underlying fx rate are recorded in aoci and provide an offset to the cumulative translation adjustment of the underlying euro net investments being hedged. in october 2008, we closed out the $250 million usd libor to euribor interest rate swap at no cost. in february 2009 we terminated the $300 million usd libor to euribor interest rate swap which required us to make a payment of $16 million. as this swap was designated as a net investment hedge, $12 million of the loss was deferred in aoci where it will remain until the euro net investment is divested and $4 million was included as a component of interest expense during the year ended december 31, 2009. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed to floating rate interest rate swaps. in september 2007, we entered into a $250 million interest rate swap agreement effectively converting the fixed rate on our long-term u.s. dollar borrowings to a variable short-term rate based on usd libor rate plus markup. in march 2008, we realized an $18 million gain on termination of this swap, which has been deferred and is being amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining term of the related debt. during 2008, we entered into a similar interest rate swap and then in october 2008 we liquidated this position at no cost. in addition, in 2005, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements effectively converting the fixed rate on our long-term japanese yen borrowings to a variable short-term rate based on the japanese yen tibor rate plus markup. these swaps are designated as qualified fair value hedges. in november 2008, the portion of these swaps related to the 13.3 billion yen notes refinanced, expired. swap contracts are generally held to maturity and are intended to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. to the extent we have not received cash or otherwise amended or settled any swap agreements, any applicable mark-to-market adjustment relating to that swap is included as a separate component of debt. 38 table of contents the following table summarizes our derivatives outstanding as of december 31, 2009. these swaps were all effective under asc 815. notional amount 1,818,000,000 50,000,000 currency jpy usd description interest rate swap 10 year cross currency swap (jpy/usd) hedged risk the risk of changes in fair value attributable to interest rate risk (1) the variability of cash flows attributable to foreign exchange risk (2) method used to test for effectiveness: (1) changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged are expected to be completely offset by the hedging derivative because the critical terms of the interest rate swap and the hedged debt match (i.e., the currency, notional amount, timing and date of interest payments). quarterly hedge effectiveness testing includes ensuring the terms of the hedging instrument and the debt have not changed and reviewing counterparty creditworthiness. (2) changes in cash flow attributable to the risk being hedged are expected to be completely offset by the hedging derivative because the critical terms of the cross currency swap and the forecasted transaction match (i.e., the currency, notional amount and timing). quarterly hedge effectiveness testing includes reviewing counterparty creditworthiness, ensuring the probability of hedged forecasted transactions has not changed and ensuring the terms of the hedging instrument have not changed. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. market exposures are evaluated using a sensitivity model that is intended to measure the potential 10% loss in interest rate and foreign exchange financial instruments, assuming adverse market conditions occur. historical interest rates and foreign exchange rates are used to estimate the volatility and correlation of future rates. the estimated maximum potential one-day loss in fair value of interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated using the sensitivity model, is not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in 2009, 2008 and 2007. the estimated maximum yearly loss in earnings due to interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated utilizing the sensitivity model, is not material to our results of operations in 2009, 2008 and 2007. actual results in the future may differ materially from these projected results due to actual developments in the global financial markets. the foreign currency and interest rate swap contracts existing during 2008 and 2007 were entered into for the purpose of seeking to mitigate the risk of certain specific adverse currency and interest rate risks. as a result of these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) that might have occurred if the markets moved favorably. in using these contracts, management exchanged the risks of the financial markets for counterparty risk. counterparty risk arises from the inability of a counterparty to meet its obligations. to mitigate counterparty risk, we entered into derivative contracts with major leading financial institutions that have credit ratings equal to or better than our credit rating.risk factors 11 risk factors. we routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. some of these risks may cause our future results to be different sometimes materially different than we presently anticipate. below are certain important operational and strategic risks that could adversely affect our business. how we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors react to those developments, could also affect our future results. volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits. we use many different raw materials for our business, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. during 2011, the cost of raw materials exceeded our initial estimates and we anticipate modest inflation in commodity and other raw material prices in 2012. historically, we have experienced the greatest amount of price volatility in natural products that represent approximately half of our raw material purchases. availability and pricing of these natural products, such as citrus and vanilla, can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather or alternative land use which we cannot control. if we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our fragrance or flavor products to cover raw material and other input cost increases or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, our profits and operating results will be adversely affected. increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in volume, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control. if the cost of energy, shipping and transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have a long-term impact on our results of operations. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. however, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used or the geographic region in which we will need these materials our margins could be adversely affected. the current volatility in the global economy may adversely affect consumer spending and may negatively impact our business and operating results. our flavors and fragrances are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. since mid-2008, the global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines 11 table of contents in consumer confidence and economic growth. these conditions led to economic contractions in the developed economies and reduced growth rates in the emerging markets. while some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the ongoing debt crisis in europe and the austerity plans being adopted in many countries has, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase energy prices and inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances, increased pressure to reduce the price of our flavors and fragrances and/or order cancellations. to the extent that the volatility in global economic conditions continue, our sales, profitability and overall operating results could be adversely affected. we may not successfully develop and introduce new products that appeal to our customers or our customers may not accurately anticipate and respond to global consumer market trends. our growth and performance largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that appeal to our customers, and ultimately to global consumers. we must continually anticipate and react to, in a timely and cost-efficient manner, changes in consumer preferences and demands. we cannot be certain that we will successfully achieve our innovation goals. we currently spend approximately 8% of our sales on research and development; however, such investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to successfully develop products that meet our customers specifications, that can be delivered at an acceptable price and that are accepted by the targeted consumer market. furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur r&amp;d costs to the time that these r&amp;d costs may result in increased revenue. consequently, even when we have won a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, insufficient resources allocated by our customers to promoting the new product, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands. failure to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods may adversely impact sales and our results of operations, litigation costs and our reputation. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to (i) identify current product standards, (ii) assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, (iii) monitor internal and external performance and (iv) test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance. if a product non-compliance event were to go undetected, we could be subject to customer claims, recalls, penalties, litigation costs and/or settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. these consequences would be exacerbated if our customer did not identify the defect and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. this could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, recalls and potential consumer litigation. furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation. the increase in demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been driven by factors outside of our control, and if these factors do not persist our future growth could be adversely affected. demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and economic growth, especially in emerging markets. nearly 46% of our 2011 sales were generated in emerging markets and we expect emerging markets to significantly contribute to our future growth. increasing consumer demand for products using flavors and fragrances is dependent on factors such as increases 12 table of contents in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world population, all of which are outside of our control. changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could materially adversely impact our results of operations. accordingly, our future growth will depend upon the continued economic growth and development of consumer spending on products for which we supply the flavor or fragrance in these global markets. our international operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position. we operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the united states, europe, africa and the middle east, latin america, and greater asia. during 2011, the majority of our net sales were generated outside the united states and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors in this section and include the following: governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates and currency fluctuations; the effects of legal and regulatory changes and the burdens and costs of our compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors or fragrances to surrounding markets; our ability to anticipate and adapt our flavors and fragrances to local preferences; risks and costs arising from language and cultural differences; changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, and the costs and ability to repatriate the revenue that we generate in these countries; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained personnel; risks and costs associated with health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic; the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights. these factors may increase in importance as we expand our operations in emerging markets as part of our growth strategy. in addition, there is a risk of potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption in certain foreign jurisdictions or increased risk of internal control issues. as needed, we conduct internal investigations, control testing and compliance reviews to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. additionally, we could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with u.s. laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act, or international laws and regulations could expose us to significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation. 13 table of contents our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights we rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. as part of our strategy to protect our intellectual property rights, we often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. if a third party infringes upon our intellectual property, or if a third party claims that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights, we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves from assertions of invalidity, infringement or misappropriation. for those intellectual property rights that are protected by way of trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, as we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. for intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights or (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell. our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer. the market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. we face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multinational and specialized flavor and fragrance companies, as well as consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors or fragrances. some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product segments, while others participate in many of our product segments. in addition, some of our global competitors may have greater resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can. consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. competition in our business is based on innovation, product quality, pricing, quality of our customer service, the support provided by our marketing and application groups, and our understanding of consumers. it is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors actions in these areas. the discovery and development of new flavor and fragrance materials, protection of the company intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are important issues in our ability to compete in our businesses. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on sales and profitability. large multinational customers, and increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers, giving those that remain on core lists priority for new or modified products. to compete more successfully in this environment, we must continue to make investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on certain core lists. if we are unable to do so, it could adversely impact our future results of operations. our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. competition for these employees can 14 table of contents be intense. the ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. however, we may not be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. if we experience significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected. our reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in a disruption to our business. for certain raw materials, we rely on a limited number of suppliers and we may not have readily available alternatives. if we are unable to maintain our supplier arrangements and relationships and are unable to obtain the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business, or if any of our key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other financial distress, we could experience disruptions in production and our financial results could be adversely affected. a disruption in operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a company engaged in development, manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no control. if any of these events were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, while we have manufacturing facilities throughout the world, certain of our facilities are the sole manufacturer of a specific ingredient. if the manufacture of that ingredient were disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing the production of an ingredient or reformulating a product may be substantial, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. our results may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. we are involved in a number of legal claims and litigation, including claims related to indirect taxes. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. our future success depends on our ability to achieve our long-term strategy. achieving our long-term objectives will require investment in product innovation and expanding our presence in emerging markets. these investments may result in short-term costs without any current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings, at least in the short term. in addition, as part of our strategy to maximize the economic profitability of our product portfolio, we may employ various strategies, including increasing pricing, implementing cost reduction or containment measures or phasing out low margin products. we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of our strategy, and we may incur costs or special charges related to our strategy. the failure to realize benefits, which may be due to our inability to execute plans, global or local economic conditions, competition, changes in our industry and the other risks described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect our pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in 15 table of contents relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. in the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. impairment charges on our long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of our long-lived assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our sales and our relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in our stock price. we continue to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on our business to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, we may perform impairment tests more frequently than annually required, based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute acquisitions, collaborations and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers or partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations, including employee integration; and challenges presented by acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our results of operations may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate. our operations are conducted in many countries, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. volatility in currency exchange rates may materially adversely impact our reported results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we employ a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities. however, if our hedging and risk management strategies are not effective, our results of operations could be adversely affected. changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our future results. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes 16 table of contents in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. in addition, the current administration and congress have announced proposals for new u.s. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. we are also subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate. in particular, we are currently involved in tax disputes with the spanish tax authorities regarding certain tax positions taken in our spanish subsidiaries tax returns and anticipate that we will receive additional assessments for matters similar to those under appeal. we are disputing the pending tax assessments and intend to dispute any future tax assessment that challenges these same tax positions. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of a tax audit or related litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made. our operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations. the availability of raw materials and energy supplies fluctuate in markets throughout the world. climate change may also affect the availability and price of key raw materials, including natural products used in the manufacture of our products. in order to mitigate the risk of price increases and shortages, our purchasers have developed various sourcing strategies, including multiple suppliers, inventory management systems, various geographic suppliers and long-term agreements to mitigate risk. in addition to market forces, there are various regulatory efforts relating to climate change that may increase the cost of raw materials, particularly energy used to operate our facilities, that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. information technology system failures or interruptions or breaches of our network security may interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. we have information systems that support our business processes, including product formulas, product development, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and intra-company communications throughout the world. these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. in addition, our systems may be vulnerable to computer viruses, computer hacking and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. the occurrence of these or other events could interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. for the year ended december 31, 2011, the company exposure to market risk was estimated using sensitivity analyses, which illustrate the change in the fair value of a derivative financial instrument assuming hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding twelve months. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2011, the company foreign currency exposures pertaining to derivative contracts exist with the euro, japanese yen, british pound, indonesia rupiah, singapore dollar, australian dollar, south african rand, swedish krona and swiss franc. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the applicable balance sheet exchange rates (primarily against the u.s. dollar), the estimated fair value of the company foreign currency forward contracts would increase or decrease by approximately $20 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we have a japanese yen/u.s. dollar currency swap related to monthly sale and purchase of products between the u.s. and japan. a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the japanese yen, the estimated fair value of the company foreign currency forward contracts would not have a material effect. we have also used non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries, primarily in the european union. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro, the estimated fair value of the company foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $5 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed to variable rate interest rate swaps based on the libor plus an interest mark up. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of one percentage point in libor, the estimated fair value of the company interest rate swaps would change by less than $2 million. at december 31, 2011, the fair value of our fixed rate debt was $867 million. based on a hypothetical decrease of 10% in interest rates, the estimated fair value of the company fixed debt would increase by $5 million. 46 table of contents we purchase certain commodities, such as natural gas, electricity, petroleum based products and certain crop related items. we generally purchase these commodities based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the purchase process. in general, we do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge commodity prices.risk factors 12 risk factors. we routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. some of these risks may cause our future results to be different sometimes materially different than we presently anticipate. below are certain important operational and strategic risks that could adversely affect our business. how we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors react to those developments, could also affect our future results. volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits. we use many different raw materials for our business, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. although raw materials cost increases moderated in 2012, they remain at elevated levels. historically, we have experienced the greatest amount of price volatility in natural products that represent approximately half of our raw material purchases. availability and pricing of these natural products, such as citrus and vanilla, can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather, alternative land use, and other factors which we cannot control. if we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our fragrance or flavor products to cover raw material and other input cost increases, or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, we could fail to meet our cost expectations and our profits and operating results could be adversely affected. increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in volume, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuation, production and transportation disruption, and other world events. as we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping and/or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have a long-term impact on our results of operations. to mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. however, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used for the geographic region in which we will need these materials our margins could be adversely affected. the current volatility in the global economy may adversely affect consumer spending and may negatively impact our business and operating results. our flavors and fragrances are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. since mid-2008, the global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. these conditions led to economic contractions in the developed economies and reduced growth rates in the emerging markets. while some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the ongoing fiscal debt crisis in europe and the austerity plans being adopted in many countries have, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase energy prices and inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances, increased 12 table of contents pressure to reduce the price of our flavors and fragrances and/or order cancellations. to the extent that the volatility in global economic conditions continue, our sales, profitability and overall operating results could be adversely affected. we may not successfully develop and introduce new products that appeal to our customers or our customers may not accurately anticipate and respond to global consumer market trends. our growth and performance largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that appeal to our customers, and ultimately to global consumers. we must continually anticipate and react to, in a timely and cost-efficient manner, changes in consumer preferences and demands. we cannot be certain that we will successfully achieve our innovation goals, such as the development of new molecules, delivery methods and other technologies. we currently spend approximately 8% of our sales on research and development; however, such investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to successfully develop products that meet our customers specifications, that can be delivered at an acceptable price and that are accepted by the targeted consumer market. furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur r&amp;d costs to the time that these r&amp;d costs may result in increased revenue. consequently, even when we have won a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, poor performance of our third-party vendors, insufficient resources allocated by our customers to promoting the new product, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands, and/or disruptive innovations by our competitors. failure to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods may result in regulatory non-compliance, litigation costs, and harm to our reputation, all of which may adversely impact sales and our results of operations. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are manufactured and sold. in addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. we use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to (i) identify current product standards, (ii) assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, (iii) monitor internal and external performance and (iv) test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance. gaps in our operational processes could adversely affect the quality of our finished products and result in a regulatory non-compliance event. if a product non-compliance event were to go undetected, it could subject us to customer claims, recalls, penalties, litigation costs and/or settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. as our flavors and fragrances are used as ingredients in many products meant for human consumption, these consequences would be exacerbated if our customer did not identify the defect and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. such a result could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, recalls and potential consumer litigation. furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation. a disruption in operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results. as a company engaged in development, manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no control. if any of these events were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, while we have manufacturing facilities throughout the world, certain of our facilities are the sole manufacturer of a specific ingredient. if the manufacture of that ingredient were disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing the production of an ingredient or reformulating a product may be substantial, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. 13 table of contents the increase in demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been driven by factors outside of our control, and if these factors do not persist our future growth could be adversely affected. demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and economic growth, especially in emerging markets. approximately 47% of our sales during 2012 were generated in emerging markets and we expect emerging markets to continue to significantly contribute to our future growth. increasing consumer demand for products using flavors and fragrances is dependent on factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world population, all of which are outside of our control. changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could materially adversely impact our results of operations. accordingly, our future growth will depend upon the continued economic growth and development of consumer spending on products for which we supply the flavor or fragrance in these global markets. our international operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position. we operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the united states, europe, africa and the middle east, latin america, and greater asia. during 2012, 77% of our net sales were to customers outside the united states and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors in this section and include the following: governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that may impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates and currency fluctuations; changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, such as the continued implementation of the european union reach regulations, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with such regulations; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors or fragrances to surrounding markets; our ability to anticipate and adapt our flavors and fragrances to local preferences; risks and costs arising from language and cultural differences; changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, and the costs and ability to repatriate the revenue that we generate in these countries; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained personnel; risks and costs associated with health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic; or the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights. these factors may increase in importance as we expand our operations in emerging markets as part of our growth strategy. 14 table of contents our foreign operations are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar non-u.s. anti-bribery regulations. non-compliance with such regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits, along with various other anti-corruption laws. in addition, we have manufacturing operations in some jurisdictions which pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues. as needed, we conduct internal investigations, control testing and compliance reviews to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable anti-corruption and similar laws and regulations. we could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with the fcpa or similar international laws and regulations could expose us to significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation. our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. as part of our strategy to protect our intellectual property rights, we often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. from time to time, a third party may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights, or a third party may infringe upon our intellectual property. as a result of such third party claims, we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves from assertions of invalidity, infringement or misappropriation. for those intellectual property rights that are protected by way of trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, as we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. for intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. if other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights or (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell. our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer. the market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. we face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multinational and specialized flavor and fragrance companies, as well as consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors or fragrances. some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product segments, while others participate in many of our product segments. in addition, some of our global competitors may have greater resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can. consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. competition in our business is based on innovation, product quality, regulatory compliance, pricing, quality of our customer service, the support provided by our marketing and application groups, and our understanding of consumers. it is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors actions in these areas. the discovery and development of new flavor and fragrance materials, protection of the company intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are important issues in our ability to compete in our 15 table of contents businesses. increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on sales and profitability. large multinational customers, and increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers, giving those that remain on core lists priority for new or modified products. to compete more successfully in this environment, we must continue to make investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on certain core lists. if we are unable to do so, it could adversely impact our future results of operations. our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals. attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. competition for these employees can be intense. the ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. however, we may not be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. if we experience significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected. our reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in a disruption to our business. for certain raw materials, we rely on a limited number of suppliers and we may not have readily available alternatives. if we are unable to maintain our supplier arrangements and relationships and are unable to obtain the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business, or if any of our key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other financial distress, we could experience disruptions in production and our financial results could be adversely affected. our results may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation. we are involved in a number of legal claims and litigation, including claims related to indirect taxes. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. our future success depends on our ability to achieve our long-term strategy. achieving our long-term objectives will require investment in product innovation and expanding our presence in emerging markets. these investments may result in short-term costs without any current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings, at least in the short term. on october 26, 2012, we announced plans to invest over $50 million in an existing flavors facility in gebze, turkey over the next three years. additionally, we opened a new state-of-the-art liquid flavors and fragrances manufacturing plant in jurong, singapore and expect to open our new flavors facility in guangzhou, china in the first half of 2013, as part of our further investment in greater asia. these significant investments in creative and manufacturing capabilities in emerging markets could help us gain share in the fast-growing developing markets of europe, the middle east, africa, and asia. if we are unable to gain share in these developing markets, it is unlikely that we will be able to achieve our long-term strategy. furthermore, unanticipated costs and construction delays could increase our operating costs and affect our financial results. in addition, as part of our strategy to maximize the economic profitability of our product portfolio, we may employ various strategies, including increasing pricing, implementing cost reduction or containment measures or 16 table of contents phasing out low margin products. we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of our strategy, and we may incur costs or special charges related to our strategy. the failure to realize benefits, which may be due to our inability to execute plans, global or local economic conditions, competition, changes in our industry and the other risks described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect our pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. in the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. impairment charges on our long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of our long-lived assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our sales and our relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in our stock price. we continue to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on our business to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, we may perform impairment tests more frequently than annually required, based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute acquisitions, collaborations and joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. the success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers or partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. these activities may present certain financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations, including employee integration; and challenges presented by acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. if the acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 17 table of contents our results of operations may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate. we have significant operations outside the u.s., the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into u.s. dollars at applicable exchange rates. the exchange rates between these currencies and the u.s. dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. additionally, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition or liquidity. although we employ a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such hedging and risk management strategies will be effective, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our future results. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. in addition, the current administration and congress have announced proposals for new u.s. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. we are also subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate. in particular, in the third quarter of 2012, we reached an overall settlement with the spanish tax authorities regarding income tax deductions taken by our spanish subsidiaries for the 2004-2010 fiscal years. we are currently involved in tax disputes with the spanish tax authorities regarding certain tax positions taken in our spanish subsidiaries tax returns in years other than those covered by the settlement, and anticipate that we may receive additional assessments for these pending matters. we may be subject to assessments and/or audits in the future in any of the countries in which we operate. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and while we do not believe the results that follow would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, such results could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made. our operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations. the availability of raw materials and energy supplies fluctuate in markets throughout the world. climate change may also affect the availability and price of key raw materials, including natural products used in the manufacture of our products. in order to mitigate the risk of price increases and shortages, our purchasers have developed various sourcing strategies, including multiple suppliers, inventory management systems, various geographic suppliers and long-term agreements to mitigate risk. in addition to market forces, there are various regulatory efforts relating to climate change that may increase the cost of raw materials, particularly energy used to operate our facilities, that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. information technology system failures or disruptions or breaches of our network security may interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. we have information technology systems that support our business processes, including product formulas, product development, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and intra-company communications throughout the world. these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, natural disasters, break-ins and similar events. for example, in october 2012, 18 table of contents several of our locations in the northeast united states were impacted by hurricane sandy, resulting in interruptions to our operations and information technology system infrastructure. our information technology systems remain vulnerable to interruptions from similar such disasters in the future. effective response to future disasters will require effort and diligence on the part of our third-party vendors and employees to avoid any adverse impact to our information technology systems. in addition, our systems may be vulnerable to computer viruses, computer hacking and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. the occurrence of any of these events could interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major foreign currencies involve the markets in the european union, great britain, mexico, brazil, china, india, indonesia, australia and japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the u.s. dollar. we actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. we have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. however, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. for the year ended december 31, 2012, the company exposure to market risk was estimated using sensitivity analyses, which illustrate the change in the fair value of a derivative financial instrument assuming hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. these contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding twelve months. the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and services is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. at december 31, 2012, the company foreign currency exposures pertaining to derivative contracts exist with the euro, japanese yen, british pound, indonesia rupiah, chinese renminbi and south african rand. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the applicable balance sheet exchange rates (primarily against the u.s. dollar), the estimated fair value of the company foreign currency forward contracts would increase or decrease by approximately $25 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we have a japanese yen/u.s. dollar currency swap related to monthly sale and purchase of products between the u.s. and japan. a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the japanese yen, the estimated fair value of the company foreign currency forward contracts would not have a material effect. we have also used non-u.s. dollar borrowings and foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries, primarily in the european union. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of 10% in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro, the estimated fair value of the company foreign currency forward contracts would change by approximately $1.5 million. however, any change in the value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by a corresponding change in the value of the underlying hedged items. we use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. the derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed to variable rate interest rate swaps based on the libor plus an interest mark up. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. based on a hypothetical decrease or increase of one percentage point in libor, the estimated fair value of the company interest rate swaps would change by less than $1.0 million. at december 31, 2012, the fair value of our fixed rate debt was $882 million. based on a hypothetical decrease of 10% in interest rates, the estimated fair value of the company fixed debt would increase by $4 million. 49 table of contents we purchase certain commodities, such as natural gas, electricity, petroleum based products and certain crop related items. we generally purchase these commodities based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the purchase process. in general, we do not use commodity financial instruments to hedge commodity prices.