quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is presented under market risk disclosure on pages 20 through 23 and in footnote 15 on pages 41 and 42 of the accompanying 2002 annual report to stockholders, which has been incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is presented under market risk disclosure on pages 25 through 28 and in note 17 on pages 53 through 55 of the accompanying 2003 annual report to stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the corporation is exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the price of crude oil, natural gas, refined products and electricity, as well as to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. in the disclosures that follow, these operations are referred to as non-trading activities. the corporation also has trading operations, principally through a 50% voting interest in a trading partnership. these activities are also exposed to commodity risks primarily related to the prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the following describes how these risks are controlled and managed. controls: the corporation maintains a control environment under the direction of its chief risk officer and through its corporate risk policy, which the corporation senior management has approved. controls include volumetric, term and value-at-risk limits. in addition, the chief risk officer must approve the use of new instruments or commodities. risk limits are monitored daily and exceptions are reported to business units and to senior management. the corporation risk management department also performs independent verifications of sources of fair values and validations of valuation models. these controls apply to all of the corporation non-trading and trading activities, including the consolidated trading partnership. the corporation treasury department administers foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs. instruments: the corporation primarily uses forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, options and energy commodity linked securities in its non-trading and trading activities. these contracts are widely traded instruments mainly with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how the corporation uses them: forward commodity contracts: the forward purchase and sale of commodities is performed as part of the corporation normal activities. at title date, the notional value of the contract is exchanged for physical delivery of the commodity. forward contracts that are designated as normal purchase and sale contracts under fas no. 133 are excluded from the quantitative market risk disclosures. forward foreign exchange contracts: forward contracts include forward purchase contracts for both the british pound sterling and the danish kroner. these foreign currency contracts commit the corporation to purchase a fixed amount of pound sterling and kroner at a predetermined exchange rate on a certain date. futures: the corporation uses exchange traded futures contracts on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and are subject to exchange position limits. swaps: the corporation uses financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of its hedging and trading activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices and are typically settled over the life of the contract. options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, the corporation receives a premium at the outset and bears the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, the corporation pays a premium at the outset and has the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. 34 table of contents energy commodity linked securities: securities where the price is linked to the price of an underlying energy commodity. these securities may be issued by a company or government. quantitative measures: the corporation uses value-at-risk to monitor and control commodity risk within its trading and non-trading activities. the value-at-risk model uses historical simulation and the results represent the potential loss in fair value over one day at a 95% confidence level. the model captures both first and second order sensitivities for options. the potential change in fair value based on commodity price risk is presented in the non-trading and trading sections below. for foreign exchange rate risk, the impact of a 10% change in foreign exchange rates on the value of the corporation portfolio of foreign currency forward contracts is presented in the non-trading section. similarly, the impact of a 15% change in interest rates on the fair value of the corporation debt is also presented in the non-trading section. a 10% change in foreign exchange rates and a 15% change in the rate of interest over one year are considered reasonable possibilities for providing sensitivity disclosures. non-trading: the corporation non-trading activities include hedging of crude oil and natural gas production. futures and swaps are used to fix the selling prices of a portion of the corporation future production and the related gains or losses are an integral part of the corporation selling prices. as of december 31, the corporation has open hedge positions equal to 60% of its estimated 2005 worldwide crude oil production. the average price for west texas intermediate crude oil (wti) related open hedge positions is $33.06. the average price for brent crude oil related open hedge positions is $31.17. approximately 20% of the corporation hedges is wti related and the remainder is brent. in addition, the corporation has approximately 24,000 barrels per day of brent related crude oil production hedged from 2006 through 2012 at an average price of $26.20 per barrel. there were no hedges of natural gas production at year end. as market conditions change, the corporation may adjust its hedge percentages. because the selling price of crude oil has increased during 2004, accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at december 31, 2004 includes after-tax deferred losses of $875 million ($195 million of realized losses and $680 million of unrealized losses) related to crude oil contracts used as hedges of exploration and production sales. realized losses in accumulated other comprehensive income represent losses on closed contracts that are deferred until the underlying barrels are sold. in addition to the impact of the open hedge positions described above, approximately $52 million of the realized losses will reduce earnings in the first quarter of 2005 and the remainder will reduce earnings during the balance of 2005. the pre-tax amount of all deferred hedge losses is reflected in accounts payable and the related income tax benefits are recorded as deferred tax assets on the balance sheet. the corporation also markets energy commodities including refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. the corporation uses futures and swaps to fix the purchase prices of commodities to be sold under fixed-price sales contracts. the following table summarizes the value-at-risk results of commodity related derivatives that are settled in cash and used in non-trading activities. the results may vary from time to time as hedge levels change. non-trading activities (millions of dollars) 2004 at december 31 $ 108 average for the year 90 high during the year 111 low during the year 52 2003 at december 31 $ 44 average for the year 43 high during the year 47 low during the year 40 35 table of contents the increase in the value at risk in 2004 principally reflects additional hedge positions on brent related production for the years 2006 through 2012. the corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates by entering into forward purchase contracts for both the british pound sterling and the danish kroner. at december 31, 2004, the corporation has $476 million of notional value foreign exchange contracts maturing in 2005 ($384 million at december 31, 2003). the fair value of foreign exchange contracts recorded as assets was $49 million at december 31, 2004 ($40 million at december 31, 2003). the change in fair value of the foreign exchange contracts from a 10% change in exchange rates is estimated to be $53 million at december 31, 2004 ($43 million at december 31, 2003). at december 31, 2004, the interest rate on substantially all of the corporation debt was fixed and there were no interest rate swaps. the corporation outstanding debt of $3,835 million has a fair value of $4,327 million at december 31, 2004 (debt of $3,941 million at december 31, 2003 had a fair value of $4,440 million). a 15% change in the rate of interest would change the fair value of debt by approximately $260 million at december 31, 2004 and by approximately $270 million at december 31, 2003. trading: the trading partnership in which the corporation has a 50% voting interest trades energy commodities and derivatives. the accounts of the partnership are consolidated with those of the corporation. the corporation also takes trading positions for its own account. these strategies include proprietary position management and trading to enhance the potential return on assets. the information that follows represents 100% of the trading partnership and the corporation proprietary trading accounts. in trading activities, the corporation is exposed to changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined product prices, primarily in north america and europe. trading positions include futures, forwards, swaps and options. in some cases, physical purchase and sale contracts are used as trading instruments and are included in the trading results. gains or losses from sales of physical products are recorded at the time of sale. derivative trading transactions are marked-to-market and are reflected in income currently. total realized gains for the year amounted to $79 million. the following table provides an assessment of the factors affecting the changes in fair value of trading activities and represents 100% of the trading partnership and other trading activities. 2004 2003 (millions of dollars) fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year $ 67 $ 36 change in fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year and still outstanding at the end of year 13 36 reversal of fair value for contracts closed during the year (10 ) (26 ) fair value of contracts entered into during the year and still outstanding 114 21 fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the year $ 184 $ 67 the corporation uses observable market values for determining the fair value of its trading instruments. in cases where actively quoted prices are not available, other external sources are used which incorporate information about commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets and other market fundamental analysis. internal estimates are based on internal models incorporating underlying market information such as commodity volatilities and correlations. the corporation risk management department 36 table of contents regularly compares valuations to independent sources and models. the following table summarizes the sources of fair values of derivatives used in the corporation trading activities: 2008 and total 2005 2006 2007 beyond (millions of dollars) source of fair value prices actively quoted $ 57 $ 2 $ 23 $ (1 ) $ 33 other external sources 132 68 43 19 2 internal estimates (5 ) (5 ) total $ 184 $ 65 $ 66 $ 18 $ 35 the following table summarizes the value-at-risk results for all trading activities. the results may change from time to time as strategies change to capture potential market rate movements. trading activities (millions of dollars) 2004 at december 31 $ 17 average for the year 12 high during the year 17 low during the year 7 2003 at december 31 $ 7 average for the year 9 high during the year 12 low during the year 7 the following table summarizes the fair values of net receivables relating to the corporation trading activities and the credit ratings of counterparties at december 31: 2004 2003 (millions of dollars) investment grade determined by outside sources $ 307 $ 246 investment grade determined internally* 48 89 less than investment grade 25 16 fair value of net receivables outstanding at the end of the year $ 380 $ 351 * based on information provided by counterparties and other available sources. 37 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the corporation is exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the price of crude oil, natural gas, refined products and electricity, as well as to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. in the disclosures that follow, these operations are referred to as non-trading activities. the corporation also has trading operations, principally through a 50% voting interest in a trading partnership. these activities are also exposed to commodity risks primarily related to the prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the following describes how these risks are controlled and managed. controls: the corporation maintains a control environment under the direction of its chief risk officer and through its corporate risk policy, which the corporation senior management has approved. controls include volumetric, term and value-at-risk limits. in addition, the chief risk officer must approve the use of new instruments or commodities. risk limits are monitored daily and exceptions are reported to business units and to senior management. the corporation risk management department also performs independent verifications of sources of fair values and validations of valuation models. these controls apply to all of the corporation non-trading and trading activities, including the consolidated trading partnership. the corporation treasury department administers foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs. instruments: the corporation primarily uses forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, options and energy commodity based securities in its non-trading and trading activities. these contracts are widely traded instruments mainly with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how the corporation uses them: forward commodity contracts: the forward purchase and sale of commodities is performed as part of the corporation normal activities. at settlement date, the notional value of the contract is exchanged for physical delivery of the commodity. forward contracts that are designated as normal purchase and sale contracts under fas no. 133 are excluded from the quantitative market risk disclosures. in some cases, physical purchase and sale contracts are used as trading instruments and are included in trading results. forward foreign exchange contracts: forward contracts include forward purchase contracts for both the british pound sterling and the danish kroner. these foreign currency contracts commit the corporation to purchase a fixed amount of pound sterling and kroner at a predetermined exchange rate on a certain date. 36 table of contents futures: the corporation uses exchange traded futures contracts on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and are subject to exchange position limits. swaps: the corporation uses financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of its hedging and trading activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices and are typically settled over the life of the contract. options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, the corporation receives a premium at the outset and bears the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, the corporation pays a premium at the outset and has the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. these premiums are a component of the fair value of the options. energy commodity based securities: securities where the price is based on the price of an underlying energy commodity. these securities may be issued by a company or government. value-at-risk: the corporation uses value-at-risk to monitor and control commodity risk within its trading and non-trading activities. the value-at-risk model uses historical simulation and the results represent the potential loss in fair value over one day at a 95% confidence level. the model captures both first and second order sensitivities for options. the following table summarizes the value-at-risk results for trading and non-trading activities. these results may vary from time to time as strategies change in trading activities or hedging levels change in non-trading activities. trading non-trading activities activities (millions of dollars) 2005 at december 31 $ 18 $ 93 average for the year 11 111 high during the year 18 127 low during the year 7 93 2004 at december 31 $ 17 $ 108 average for the year 12 90 high during the year 17 111 low during the year 7 52 non-trading: the corporation non-trading activities may include hedging of crude oil and natural gas production. futures and swaps are used to fix the selling prices of a portion of the corporation future production and the related gains or losses are an integral part of the corporation selling prices. following is a summary of the corporation outstanding crude oil hedges at december 31, 2005: brent crude oil average thousands of maturity selling price barrels per day 2006 $ 28.10 30 2007 25.85 24 2008 25.56 24 2009 25.54 24 2010 25.78 24 2011 26.37 24 2012 26.90 24 37 table of contents there were no hedges of wti crude oil or natural gas production at year end. as market conditions change, the corporation may adjust its hedge percentages. the corporation also markets energy commodities including refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. the corporation uses futures and swaps to manage the risk in its marketing activities. accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at december 31, 2005 includes after-tax unrealized deferred losses of $1,304 million primarily related to crude oil contracts used as hedges of exploration and production sales. the pre-tax amount of deferred hedge losses is reflected in accounts payable and the related income tax benefits are recorded as deferred tax assets on the balance sheet. the corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates by entering into forward purchase contracts for both the british pound sterling and the danish kroner. at december 31, 2005, the corporation has $677 million of notional value foreign exchange contracts maturing in 2006 and 2007 ($476 million at december 31, 2004). the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts was a liability of $31 million at december 31, 2005 (receivable of $49 million at december 31, 2004). the change in fair value of the foreign exchange contracts from a 10% change in exchange rates is estimated to be $64 million at december 31, 2005 ($53 million at december 31, 2004). the corporation outstanding debt of $3,785 million has a fair value of $4,286 million at december 31, 2005 (debt of $3,835 million at december 31, 2004 had a fair value of $4,327 million). a 15% change in the rate of interest would change the fair value of debt by approximately $250 million at december 31, 2005 and by approximately $260 million at december 31, 2004. trading: in trading activities, the corporation is exposed to changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined product prices. the trading partnership in which the corporation has a 50% voting interest trades energy commodities and derivatives. the accounts of the partnership are consolidated with those of the corporation. the corporation also takes trading positions for its own account. the information that follows represents 100% of the trading partnership and the corporation proprietary trading accounts. gains or losses from sales of physical products are recorded at the time of sale. derivative trading transactions are marked-to -market and are reflected in income currently. total realized losses for the year amounted to $297 million ($79 million of realized gains for 2004). the following table provides an assessment of the factors affecting the changes in fair value of trading activities and represents 100% of the trading partnership and other trading activities. 2005 2004 (millions of dollars) fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year $ 184 $ 67 change in fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year and still outstanding at the end of year 6 13 reversal of fair value for contracts closed during the year (23 ) (10 ) fair value of contracts entered into during the year and still outstanding 942 114 fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the year $ 1,109 $ 184 the corporation uses observable market values for determining the fair value of its trading instruments. in cases where actively quoted prices are not available, other external sources are used which incorporate information about commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets and other market fundamental analysis. internal estimates are based on internal models incorporating underlying market information such as commodity volatilities and correlations. the corporation risk management department 38 table of contents regularly compares valuations to independent sources and models. the following table summarizes the sources of fair values of derivatives used in the corporation trading activities at december 31: 2009 and total 2006 2007 2008 beyond (millions of dollars) source of fair value prices actively quoted $ 1,040 $ 506 $ 278 $ 128 $ 128 other external sources 51 4 11 4 32 internal estimates 18 10 5 3 total $ 1,109 $ 520 $ 294 $ 135 $ 160 the following table summarizes the fair values of net receivables relating to the corporation trading activities and the credit ratings of counterparties at december 31: 2005 2004 (millions of dollars) investment grade determined by outside sources $ 353 $ 307 investment grade determined internally* 139 48 less than investment grade 70 25 fair value of net receivables outstanding at the end of the year $ 562 $ 380 * based on information provided by counterparties and other available sources. 39 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the corporation is exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the price of crude oil, natural gas, refined products and electricity, as well as to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. in the disclosures that follow, these operations are referred to as non-trading activities. the corporation also has trading operations, principally through a 50% voting interest in a trading partnership. these activities are also exposed to commodity risks primarily related to the prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the following describes how these risks are controlled and managed. controls: the corporation maintains a control environment under the direction of its chief risk officer and through its corporate risk policy, which the corporation senior management has approved. controls include 38 table of contents volumetric, term and value-at-risk limits. in addition, the chief risk officer must approve the use of new instruments or commodities. risk limits are monitored daily and exceptions are reported to business units and to senior management. the corporation risk management department also performs independent verifications of sources of fair values and validations of valuation models. these controls apply to all of the corporation non-trading and trading activities, including the consolidated trading partnership. the corporation treasury department administers foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs. instruments: the corporation primarily uses forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, options and energy commodity based securities in its non-trading and trading activities. these contracts are generally widely traded instruments with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how the corporation uses them: forward commodity contracts: the forward purchase and sale of commodities is performed as part of the corporation normal activities. at settlement date, the notional value of the contract is exchanged for physical delivery of the commodity. forward contracts that are designated as normal purchase and sale contracts under fas no. 133 are excluded from the quantitative market risk disclosures. forward foreign exchange contracts: forward contracts include forward purchase contracts for both the british pound sterling and the danish kroner. these foreign currency contracts commit the corporation to purchase a fixed amount of pound sterling and kroner at a predetermined exchange rate on a certain date. exchange traded contracts: the corporation uses exchange traded contracts, including futures, on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and may be subject to exchange position limits. swaps: the corporation uses financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of its hedging and trading activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices and are typically settled over the life of the contract. options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, the corporation receives a premium at the outset and bears the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, the corporation pays a premium at the outset and has the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. these premiums are a component of the fair value of the options. energy securities: energy securities include energy related equity or debt securities issued by a company or government or related derivatives on these securities. value-at-risk: the corporation uses value-at-risk to monitor and control commodity risk within its trading and non-trading activities. the value-at-risk model uses historical simulation and the results represent the potential loss in fair value over one day at a 95% confidence level. the model captures both first and second order sensitivities for options. the following table summarizes the value-at-risk results for trading and non-trading activities. these 39 table of contents results may vary from time to time as strategies change in trading activities or hedging levels change in non-trading activities. trading non-trading activities activities (millions of dollars) 2006 at december 31 $ 17 $ 62 average for the year 20 75 high during the year 22 86 low during the year 17 62 2005 at december 31 $ 18 $ 93 average for the year 11 111 high during the year 18 127 low during the year 7 93 non-trading: the corporation non-trading activities may include hedging of crude oil and natural gas production. futures and swaps are used to fix the selling prices of a portion of the corporation future production and the related gains or losses are an integral part of the corporation selling prices. following is a summary of the corporation outstanding crude oil hedges at december 31, 2006: brent crude oil average thousands of maturity selling price barrels per day 2007 $ 25.85 24 2008 25.56 24 2009 25.54 24 2010 25.78 24 2011 26.37 24 2012 26.90 24 there were no hedges of wti crude oil or natural gas production at december 31, 2006. as market conditions change, the corporation may adjust its hedge percentages. the corporation also markets energy commodities including refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. the corporation uses futures and swaps to manage the risk in its marketing activities. accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at december 31, 2006 includes after-tax unrealized deferred losses of $1,338 million primarily related to crude oil contracts used as hedges of exploration and production sales. the pre-tax amount of deferred hedge losses is reflected in accounts payable and the related income tax benefits are recorded as deferred tax assets on the balance sheet. the corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates by entering into forward purchase contracts for both the british pound sterling and the danish kroner. at december 31, 2006, the corporation had $729 million of notional value foreign exchange contracts maturing in 2007. the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts was a receivable of $51 million at december 31, 2006. the change in fair value of the foreign exchange contracts from a 10% change in exchange rates is estimated to be approximately $80 million at december 31, 2006. the corporation outstanding debt of $3,772 million has a fair value of $4,105 million at december 31, 2006. a 15% decrease in the rate of interest would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $300 million at december 31, 2006. trading: in trading activities, the corporation is exposed to changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined product prices. the trading partnership in which the corporation has a 50% voting interest trades energy 40 table of contents commodities and derivatives. the accounts of the partnership are consolidated with those of the corporation. the corporation also takes trading positions for its own account. the information that follows represents 100% of the trading partnership and the corporation proprietary trading accounts. gains or losses from sales of physical products are recorded at the time of sale. derivative trading transactions are marked-to-market and are reflected in income currently. total realized gains for the year amounted to $721 million ($297 million of realized losses for 2005). the following table provides an assessment of the factors affecting the changes in fair value of trading activities and represents 100% of the trading partnership and other trading activities. 2006 2005 (millions of dollars) fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year $ 1,109 $ 184 change in fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year and still outstanding at the end of year (82 ) 6 reversal of fair value for contracts closed during the year (547 ) (23 ) fair value of contracts entered into during the year and still outstanding (115 ) 942 fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the year $ 365 $ 1,109 the corporation uses observable market values for determining the fair value of its trading instruments. in cases where actively quoted prices are not available, other external sources are used which incorporate information about commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets and other market fundamental analysis. internal estimates are based on internal models incorporating underlying market information such as commodity volatilities and correlations. the corporation risk management department regularly compares valuations to independent sources and models. the following table summarizes the sources of fair values of derivatives used in the corporation trading activities at december 31: 2010 and total 2007 2008 2009 beyond (millions of dollars) source of fair value prices actively quoted $ 357 $ 198 $ 62 $ 65 $ 32 other external sources 24 30 (12 ) 6 internal estimates (16 ) (16 ) total $ 365 $ 212 $ 50 $ 65 $ 38 the following table summarizes the fair values of net receivables relating to the corporation trading activities and the credit ratings of counterparties at december 31: 2006 2005 (millions of dollars) investment grade determined by outside sources $ 347 $ 353 investment grade determined internally* 59 139 less than investment grade 41 70 fair value of net receivables outstanding at the end of the year $ 447 $ 562 * based on information provided by counterparties and other available sources. 41 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the corporation is exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the price of crude oil, natural gas, refined products and electricity, as well as to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. in the disclosures that follow, these operations are referred to as non-trading activities. the corporation also has trading operations, principally through a 50% voting interest in a trading partnership. these activities are also exposed to commodity risks primarily related to the prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the following describes how these risks are controlled and managed. controls: the corporation maintains a control environment under the direction of its chief risk officer and through its corporate risk policy, which the corporation senior management has approved. controls include volumetric, term and value-at-risk limits. in addition, the chief risk officer must approve the use of new instruments or commodities. risk limits are monitored daily and exceptions are reported to business units and to senior management. the corporation risk management department also performs independent verifications of sources of fair values and validations of valuation models. these controls apply to all of the corporation non-trading and trading activities, including the consolidated trading partnership. the corporation treasury department is responsible for administering foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs. instruments: the corporation primarily uses forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, options and energy commodity based securities in its non-trading and trading activities. these contracts are generally widely traded instruments with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how the corporation uses them: forward commodity contracts: the corporation enters into contracts for the forward purchase and sale of commodities. at settlement date, the notional value of the contract is exchanged for physical delivery of the commodity. forward contracts that are designated as normal purchase and sale contracts under fas no. 133 are excluded from the quantitative market risk disclosures. forward foreign exchange contracts: forward contracts include forward purchase contracts for both the british pound sterling and the danish kroner. these foreign currency contracts commit the corporation to purchase a fixed amount of pound sterling and kroner at a predetermined exchange rate on a certain date. exchange traded contracts: the corporation uses exchange traded contracts, including futures, on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and may be subject to exchange position limits. swaps: the corporation uses financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of its hedging and trading activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices and are typically settled over the life of the contract. 36 table of contents options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, the corporation receives a premium at the outset and bears the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, the corporation pays a premium at the outset and has the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. these premiums are a component of the fair value of the options. energy securities: energy securities include energy related equity or debt securities issued by a company or government or related derivatives on these securities. value-at-risk: the corporation uses value-at-risk to monitor and control commodity risk within its trading and non-trading activities. the value-at-risk model uses historical simulation and the results represent the potential loss in fair value over one day at a 95% confidence level. the model captures both first and second order sensitivities for options. the following table summarizes the value-at-risk results for trading and non-trading activities. these results may vary from time to time as strategies change in trading activities or hedging levels change in non-trading activities. trading non-trading activities activities (millions of dollars) 2007 at december 31 $ 10 $ 72 average 12 63 high 13 72 low 10 54 2006 at december 31 $ 17 $ 62 average 20 75 high 22 86 low 17 62 non-trading: the corporation non-trading activities may include hedging of crude oil and natural gas production. futures and swaps are used to fix the selling prices of a portion of the corporation future production and the related gains or losses are an integral part of the corporation selling prices. following is a summary of the corporation outstanding crude oil hedges at december 31, 2007: brent crude oil average thousands of maturity selling price barrels per day 2008 $ 25.56 24 2009 25.54 24 2010 25.78 24 2011 26.37 24 2012 26.90 24 there were no hedges of wti crude oil or natural gas production at december 31, 2007. as market conditions change, the corporation may adjust its hedge percentages. the corporation also markets energy commodities including refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. the corporation uses futures, swaps and options to manage the risk in its marketing activities. accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at december 31, 2007 includes after-tax unrealized deferred losses of $1,672 million primarily related to crude oil contracts used as hedges of exploration and production sales. the pre-tax amount of deferred hedge losses is reflected in accounts payable and the related income tax benefits are recorded as deferred tax assets on the balance sheet. 37 table of contents the corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates by entering into forward purchase contracts for both the british pound sterling and the danish kroner. at december 31, 2007, the corporation had $977 million of notional value foreign exchange contracts maturing in 2008. the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts was a payable of $1 million at december 31, 2007. the change in fair value of the foreign exchange contracts from a 10% change in exchange rates is estimated to be approximately $100 million at december 31, 2007. the corporation outstanding debt of $3,980 million has a fair value of $4,263 million at december 31, 2007. a 15% decrease in the rate of interest would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $200 million at december 31, 2007. trading: in trading activities, the corporation is exposed to changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined product prices. the trading partnership in which the corporation has a 50% voting interest trades energy commodities, securities and derivatives. the accounts of the partnership are consolidated with those of the corporation. the corporation also takes trading positions for its own account. the information that follows represents 100% of the trading partnership and the corporation proprietary trading accounts. gains or losses from sales of physical products are recorded at the time of sale. total realized gains on trading activities for 2007 amounted to $303 million ($721 million in 2006). derivative trading transactions are marked-to-market and unrealized gains or losses are reflected in income currently. the following table provides an assessment of the factors affecting the changes in fair value of trading activities and represents 100% of the trading partnership and other trading activities. 2007 2006 (millions of dollars) fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year $ 365 $ 1,109 change in fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year and still outstanding at the end of year 193 (82 ) reversal of fair value for contracts closed during the year (230 ) (547 ) fair value of contracts entered into during the year and still outstanding (174 ) (115 ) fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the year $ 154 $ 365 the corporation uses observable market values for determining the fair value of its trading instruments. in cases where actively quoted prices are not available, other external sources are used which incorporate information about commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets and other market fundamental analysis. internal estimates are based on internal models incorporating underlying market information such as commodity volatilities and correlations. the corporation risk management department regularly compares valuations to independent sources and models. the following table summarizes the sources of fair values of derivatives used in the corporation trading activities at december 31, 2007: 2011 and total 2008 2009 2010 beyond (millions of dollars) source of fair value prices actively quoted $ 119 $ 45 $ 53 $ 42 $ (21 ) other external sources 36 24 10 2 internal estimates (1 ) (1 ) total $ 154 $ 68 $ 63 $ 42 $ (19 ) 38 table of contents the following table summarizes the net receivables relating to the corporation trading activities and the credit ratings of counterparties at december 31: 2007 2006 (millions of dollars) investment grade determined by outside sources $ 364 $ 347 investment grade determined internally* 173 59 less than investment grade 55 41 fair value of net receivables outstanding at the end of the year $ 592 $ 447 * based on information provided by counterparties and other available sources. 39 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the corporation is exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the price of crude oil, natural gas, refined products and electricity, as well as to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. in the disclosures that follow, these operations are referred to as non-trading activities. the corporation also has trading operations, principally through a 50% voting interest in a consolidated partnership that trades energy commodities. these activities are also exposed to commodity risks primarily related to the prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the following describes how these risks are controlled and managed. controls: the corporation maintains a control environment under the direction of its chief risk officer and through its corporate risk policy, which the corporation senior management has approved. controls include volumetric, term and value-at-risk limits. in addition, the chief risk officer must approve the use of new instruments or commodities. risk limits are monitored daily and exceptions are reported to business units and to senior management. the corporation risk management department also performs independent verifications of sources of fair values and validations of valuation models. these controls apply to all of the corporation non-trading and trading activities, including the consolidated trading partnership. the corporation treasury department is responsible for administering foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs. instruments: the corporation primarily uses forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, options and energy commodity based securities in its non-trading and trading activities. these contracts are generally widely traded instruments with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how the corporation uses them: forward commodity contracts: the corporation enters into contracts for the forward purchase and sale of commodities. at settlement date, the notional value of the contract is exchanged for physical delivery of the commodity. forward contracts that are designated as normal purchase and sale contracts under fas 133 are excluded from the quantitative market risk disclosures. forward foreign exchange contracts: the corporation enters into forward contracts primarily for the british pound, the norwegian krone, and the danish krone, which commit the corporation to buy or sell a fixed amount of these currencies at a predetermined exchange rate on a future date. exchange traded contracts: the corporation uses exchange traded contracts, including futures, on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and may be subject to exchange position limits. swaps: the corporation uses financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of its hedging and trading activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices and are typically settled over the life of the contract. options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, the corporation receives a premium at the outset and bears the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, the corporation pays a premium at the outset and has the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. these premiums are a component of the fair value of the options. energy securities: energy securities include energy related equity or debt securities issued by a company or government or related derivatives on these securities. 38 table of contents value-at-risk: the corporation uses value-at-risk to monitor and control commodity risk within its trading and non-trading activities. the value-at-risk model uses historical simulation and the results represent the potential loss in fair value over one day at a 95% confidence level. the model captures both first and second order sensitivities for options. the following table summarizes the value-at-risk results for trading and non-trading activities. these results may vary from time to time as strategies change in trading activities or hedging levels change in non-trading activities. trading non-trading activities activities (millions of dollars) 2008 at december 31 $ 17 $ 13 average 13 90 high 17 140 low 11 13 2007 at december 31 $ 10 $ 72 average 12 63 high 13 72 low 10 54 non-trading: the corporation non-trading activities may include hedging of crude oil and natural gas production. futures and swaps are used to fix the selling prices of a portion of the corporation future production and the related gains or losses are an integral part of the corporation selling prices. in october 2008, the corporation closed its brent crude oil hedge positions by entering into offsetting contracts with the same counterparty covering 24,000 barrels per day from 2009 through 2012 at a per barrel price of $86.95 each year. the after-tax deferred losses related to closed crude oil contracts will be recorded in earnings as the contracts mature. there were no hedges of wti crude oil or natural gas production at december 31, 2008. the corporation also markets energy commodities including refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. the corporation uses futures, swaps and options to manage the risk in its marketing activities. accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at december 31, 2008 includes after-tax deferred losses of $1,478 million primarily related to closed crude oil contracts that were used as hedges of exploration and production sales. the corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates by entering into forward contracts for various currencies including the british pound, the norwegian krone and the danish krone. at december 31, 2008, the corporation had $896 million of notional value foreign exchange contracts maturing in 2009. the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts was a payable of $75 million at december 31, 2008. the change in fair value of the foreign exchange contracts from a 20% change in exchange rates is estimated to be approximately $165 million at december 31, 2008. the corporation outstanding debt of $3,955 million has a fair value of $3,883 million at december 31, 2008. a 15% decrease in the rate of interest would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $85 million at december 31, 2008. trading: in trading activities, the corporation is primarily exposed to changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined product prices. the trading partnership in which the corporation has a 50% voting interest trades energy commodities, securities and derivatives. the accounts of the partnership are consolidated with those of the corporation. the corporation also takes trading positions for its own account. the information that follows represents 100% of the trading partnership and the corporation proprietary trading accounts. 39 table of contents gains or losses from sales of physical products are recorded at the time of sale. total realized gains (losses) on trading activities amounted to $(317) million in 2008 and $303 million in 2007. derivative trading transactions are marked-to-market and unrealized gains or losses are reflected in income currently. the following table provides an assessment of the factors affecting the changes in fair value of trading activities and represents 100% of the trading partnership and other trading activities. 2008 2007 (millions of dollars) fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year $ 154 $ 365 change in fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year and still outstanding at the end of year (257 ) 193 reversal of fair value for contracts closed during the year 42 (230 ) fair value of contracts entered into during the year and still outstanding 925 (174 ) fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the year $ 864 $ 154 the corporation measures fair value and summarizes the sources of fair value for derivatives in accordance with the provisions of fas 157. see the discussion on page 35 for more details on how the corporation measures fair value. the following table summarizes the sources of fair values of derivatives used in the corporation trading activities at december 31, 2008: 2012 and total 2009 2010 2011 beyond (millions of dollars) source of fair value level 1 $ 35 $ (22 ) $ 63 $ 2 $ (8 ) level 2 885 564 180 82 59 level 3 (56 ) (42 ) (12 ) (1 ) (1 ) total $ 864 $ 500 $ 231 $ 83 $ 50 the following table summarizes the receivables net of cash margin and letters of credit relating to the corporation trading activities and the credit ratings of counterparties at december 31: 2008 2007 (millions of dollars) investment grade determined by outside sources $ 263 $ 364 investment grade determined internally* 133 173 less than investment grade 58 55 fair value of net receivables outstanding at the end of the year $ 454 $ 592 * based on information provided by counterparties and other available sources. 40 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the corporation is exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the price of crude oil, natural gas, refined products and electricity, as well as to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. the corporation also has trading operations, principally through a 50% voting interest in a consolidated partnership that trades energy commodities and energy derivatives. these activities are also exposed to commodity risks primarily related to the prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the following describes how these risks are controlled and managed. controls: the corporation maintains a control environment under the direction of its chief risk officer and through its corporate risk policy, which the corporation senior management has approved. controls include volumetric, term and value-at-risk limits. the chief risk officer must approve the use of new instruments or commodities. risk limits are monitored and reported on daily to business units and to senior management. the corporation risk management department also performs independent verifications of sources of fair values and validations of valuation models. these controls apply to all of the corporation risk management and trading activities, including the consolidated trading partnership. the corporation treasury department is responsible for administering foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs. the corporation uses value-at-risk to monitor and control commodity risk within its trading and risk management activities. the value-at-risk model uses historical simulation and the results represent the potential loss in fair value over one day at a 95% confidence level. the model captures both first and second order sensitivities for options. results may vary from time to time as strategies change in trading activities or hedging levels change in risk management activities. instruments: the corporation primarily uses forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, options and energy commodity based securities in its risk management and trading activities. these contracts are generally widely traded instruments with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how the corporation uses them: forward commodity contracts: the corporation enters into contracts for the forward purchase and sale of commodities. at settlement date, the notional value of the contract is exchanged for physical delivery of the commodity. forward contracts that are deemed normal purchase and sale contracts are excluded from the quantitative market risk disclosures. forward foreign exchange contracts: the corporation enters into forward contracts primarily for the british pound, the euro, and the thai baht, which commit the corporation to buy or sell a fixed amount of these currencies at a predetermined exchange rate on a future date. 36 table of contents exchange traded contracts: the corporation uses exchange traded contracts, including futures, on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and may be subject to exchange position limits. swaps: the corporation uses financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of its hedging and trading activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices and are typically settled over the life of the contract. options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, the corporation receives a premium at the outset and bears the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, the corporation pays a premium at the outset and has the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. these premiums are a component of the fair value of the options. energy securities: energy securities include energy related equity or debt securities issued by a company or government or related derivatives on these securities. risk management activities energy marketing activities: in its energy marketing activities, the corporation sells refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity principally to commercial and industrial businesses at fixed and floating prices for varying periods of time. commodity contracts such as futures, forwards, swaps and options together with physical assets, such as storage, are used to obtain supply and reduce margin volatility or lower costs related to sales contracts with customers. corporate risk management: corporate risk management activities include transactions designed to reduce risk in the selling prices of crude oil or natural gas produced by the corporation or to reduce exposure to foreign currency or interest rate movements. generally, futures, swaps or option strategies may be used to reduce risk in the selling price of a portion of the corporation crude oil or natural gas production. forward contracts may also be used to purchase certain currencies in which the corporation does business with the intent of reducing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate swaps may also be used, generally to convert fixed rate interest payments to floating. the corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates by entering into formal contracts for various currencies including the british pound, the euro and the thai baht. at december 31, 2009 the corporation had a payable of $16 million related to foreign exchange contracts maturing in 2010. the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts was also a payable of $16 million at december 31, 2009. the change in fair value of the foreign exchange contracts from a 20% strengthening of the us dollar exchange rate is estimated to be approximately $172 million at december 31, 2009. the corporation debt of $4,467 million has a fair value of $5,073 million at december 31, 2009. a 15% decrease in the rate of interest would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $120 million at december 31, 2009. value at risk following is the value at risk for the corporation energy marketing and risk management activities: 2009 2008 (millions of dollars) at december 31 $ 8 $ 13 average 10 90 high 13 140 low 8 13 37 table of contents trading activities trading activities are conducted principally through a trading partnership in which the corporation has a 50% voting interest. this consolidated entity intends to generate earnings through various strategies primarily using energy commodities, securities and derivatives. the corporation also takes trading positions for its own account. following is the value at risk for the corporation trading activities: 2009 2008 (millions of dollars) at december 31 $ 9 $ 17 average 12 13 high 15 17 low 9 11 derivative trading transactions are marked-to-market and unrealized gains or losses are reflected in income currently. gains or losses from sales of physical products are recorded at the time of sale. total realized gains (losses) on trading activities amounted to $642 million in 2009 and $(317) million in 2008. the following table provides an assessment of the factors affecting the changes in fair value of trading activities and represents 100% of the trading partnership and other trading activities. 2009 2008 (millions of dollars) fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year $ 864 $ 154 change in fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year and still outstanding at the end of the year (6 ) (257 ) reversal of fair value for contracts closed during the year (534 ) 42 fair value of contracts entered into during the year and still outstanding (214 ) 925 fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the year $ 110 $ 864 the following table summarizes the sources of fair values of derivatives used in the corporation trading activities at december 31, 2009: 2013 and total 2010 2011 2012 beyond (millions of dollars) source of fair value level 1 $ (86 ) $ (97 ) $ 7 $ 2 $ 2 level 2 147 103 59 (13 ) (2 ) level 3 49 35 17 8 (11 ) total $ 110 $ 41 $ 83 $ (3 ) $ (11 ) the following table summarizes the receivables net of cash margin and letters of credit relating to the corporation trading activities and the credit ratings of counterparties at december 31: 2009 2008 (millions of dollars) investment grade determined by outside sources $ 232 $ 263 investment grade determined internally* 120 133 less than investment grade 61 58 fair value of net receivables outstanding at the end of the year $ 413 $ 454 * based on information provided by counterparties and other available sources. 38 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the corporation is exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the price of crude oil, natural gas, refined products and electricity, as well as to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. in the disclosures that follow, these risk management activities are referred to as energy marketing and corporate risk management. the corporation also has trading operations, principally through a 50% voting interest in a consolidated partnership that trades energy commodities and energy derivatives. these activities are also exposed to commodity risks primarily related to the prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the following describes how these risks are controlled and managed. controls: the corporation maintains a control environment under the direction of its chief risk officer and through its corporate risk policy, which the corporation senior management has approved. controls include volumetric, term and value at risk limits. the chief risk officer must approve the use of new instruments or commodities. risk limits are monitored and reported on daily to business units and to senior management. the corporation risk management department also performs independent verifications of sources of fair values and validations of valuation models. these controls apply to all of the corporation risk management and trading activities, including the consolidated trading partnership. the corporation treasury department is responsible for administering foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs. the corporation uses value at risk to monitor and control commodity risk within its trading and risk management activities. the value at risk model uses historical simulation and the results represent the potential loss in fair value over one day at a 95% confidence level. the model captures both first and second order sensitivities for options. results may vary from time to time as strategies change in trading activities or hedging levels change in risk management activities. instruments: the corporation primarily uses forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, options and energy commodity based securities in its risk management and trading activities. these contracts are generally widely traded instruments with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how the corporation uses them: forward commodity contracts: the corporation enters into contracts for the forward purchase and sale of commodities. at settlement date, the notional value of the contract is exchanged for physical delivery of the commodity. forward contracts that are deemed normal purchase and sale contracts are excluded from the quantitative market risk disclosures. forward foreign exchange contracts: the corporation enters into forward contracts primarily for the british pound and the thai baht, which commit the corporation to buy or sell a fixed amount of these currencies at a predetermined exchange rate on a future date. exchange traded contracts: the corporation uses exchange traded contracts, including futures, on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and may be subject to exchange position limits. swaps: the corporation uses financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of its risk management and trading activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices or interest rates and are typically settled over the life of the contract. options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, the corporation receives a premium at the outset and bears the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, the corporation pays a premium at the outset and has the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. 42 table of contents energy securities: energy securities include energy related equity or debt securities issued by a company or government or related derivatives on these securities. risk management activities energy marketing activities: in its energy marketing activities, the corporation sells refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity principally to commercial and industrial businesses at fixed and floating prices for varying periods of time. commodity contracts such as futures, forwards, swaps and options together with physical assets, such as storage, are used to obtain supply and reduce margin volatility or lower costs related to sales contracts with customers. corporate risk management: corporate risk management activities include transactions designed to reduce risk in the selling prices of crude oil, refined products or natural gas produced by the corporation or to reduce exposure to foreign currency or interest rate movements. generally, futures, swaps or option strategies may be used to reduce risk in the selling price of a portion of the corporation crude oil or natural gas production. forward contracts may also be used to purchase certain currencies in which the corporation does business with the intent of reducing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate swaps may also be used, generally to convert fixed-rate interest payments to floating. the corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates by entering into formal contracts for various currencies including the british pound and the thai baht. at december 31, 2010, the corporation had a payable for foreign exchange contracts maturing in 2011 with a fair value of $7 million. the change in fair value of the foreign exchange contracts from a 10% strengthening of the us dollar exchange rate is estimated to be an approximately $88 million loss at december 31, 2010. the corporation fixed-rate debt of $5,569 million has a fair value of $6,353 million at december 31, 2010. a 15% decrease in the rate of interest would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $147 million at december 31, 2010. following is the value at risk for the corporation energy marketing and risk management commodity derivatives activities, excluding foreign exchange and interest derivatives described above: 2010 2009 (millions of dollars) at december 31 $ 5 $ 8 average 5 10 high 6 13 low 4 8 trading activities trading activities are conducted principally through a trading partnership in which the corporation has a 50% voting interest. this consolidated entity intends to generate earnings through various strategies primarily using energy commodities, securities and derivatives. the corporation also takes trading positions for its own account. following is the value at risk for the corporation trading activities: 2010 2009 (millions of dollars) at december 31 $ 14 $ 9 average 14 12 high 15 15 low 12 9 43 table of contents derivative trading transactions are marked-to-market and unrealized gains or losses are recognized currently in earnings. gains or losses from sales of physical products are recorded at the time of sale. total realized gains on trading activities amounted to $375 million in 2010 and $642 million in 2009. the following table provides an assessment of the factors affecting the changes in fair value of trading activities and represents 100% of the trading partnership and other trading activities: 2010 2009 (millions of dollars) fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year $ 110 $ 864 change in fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year and still outstanding at the end of the year 10 (6 ) reversal of fair value for contracts closed during the year (233 ) (534 ) fair value of contracts entered into during the year and still outstanding 207 (214 ) fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the year $ 94 $ 110 the following table summarizes the sources of fair values of derivatives used in the corporation trading activities at december 31, 2010: 2014 and total 2011 2012 2013 beyond (millions of dollars) source of fair value level 1 $ (252 ) $ (305 ) $ 46 $ 5 $ 2 level 2 (34 ) (89 ) 44 8 3 level 3 380 352 (14 ) (2 ) 44 total $ 94 $ (42 ) $ 76 $ 11 $ 49 the following table summarizes the receivables net of cash margin and letters of credit relating to the corporation trading activities and the credit ratings of counterparties at december 31: 2010 2009 (millions of dollars) investment grade determined by outside sources $ 314 $ 232 investment grade determined internally* 272 120 less than investment grade 48 61 fair value of net receivables outstanding at the end of the year $ 634 $ 413 * based on information provided by counterparties and other available sources. 44 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the corporation is exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the price of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity, as well as to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. in the disclosures that follow, risk management activities are referred to as energy marketing and corporate risk management activities. the corporation also has trading operations, principally through a 50% voting interest in a consolidated partnership that trades energy-related commodities, securities and derivatives. these activities are also exposed to commodity risks primarily related to the prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products. the following describes how these risks are controlled and managed. controls: the corporation maintains a control environment under the direction of its chief risk officer and through its corporate risk policy, which the corporation senior management has approved. controls include volumetric, term and value at risk limits. the chief risk officer must approve the use of new instruments or commodities. risk limits are monitored and are reported on a daily basis to business units and to senior management. the corporation risk management department also performs independent verifications of sources of fair values and validations of valuation models. these controls apply to all of the corporation risk management and trading activities, including the consolidated trading partnership. the corporation treasury department is responsible for administering and monitoring foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs. the corporation uses value at risk to monitor and control commodity risk within its risk management and trading activities. the value at risk model uses historical simulation and the results represent the potential loss in fair value over one day at a 95% confidence level. the model captures both first and second order sensitivities for options. results may vary from time to time as strategies change in trading activities or hedging levels change in risk management activities. instruments: the corporation primarily uses forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, options and energy commodity based securities in its risk management and trading activities. these contracts are generally widely traded instruments with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how the corporation uses them: forward commodity contracts: the corporation enters into contracts for the forward purchase and sale of commodities. at settlement date, the notional value of the contract is exchanged for physical delivery of the commodity. forward contracts that are deemed normal purchase and sale contracts are excluded from the quantitative market risk disclosures. forward foreign exchange contracts: the corporation enters into forward contracts primarily for the british pound and the thai baht, which commit the corporation to buy or sell a fixed amount of these currencies at a predetermined exchange rate on a future date. exchange traded contracts: the corporation uses exchange traded contracts, including futures, on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and may be subject to exchange position limits. 40 table of contents swaps: the corporation uses financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of its risk management and trading activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices or interest rates and are typically settled over the life of the contract. options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, the corporation receives a premium at the outset and bears the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, the corporation pays a premium at the outset and has the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. energy securities: energy securities include energy-related equity or debt securities issued by a company or government or related derivatives on these securities. risk management activities energy marketing activities: in its energy marketing activities, the corporation sells refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity principally to commercial and industrial businesses at fixed and floating prices for varying periods of time. commodity contracts such as futures, forwards, swaps and options together with physical assets, such as storage, are used to obtain supply and reduce margin volatility or lower costs related to sales contracts with customers. corporate risk management: corporate risk management activities include transactions designed to reduce risk in the selling prices of crude oil, refined petroleum products or natural gas produced by the corporation or to reduce exposure to foreign currency or interest rate movements. generally, futures, swaps or option strategies may be used to reduce risk in the selling price of a portion of the corporation crude oil or natural gas production. forward contracts may also be used to purchase certain currencies in which the corporation does business with the intent of reducing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate swaps may also be used, generally to convert fixed-rate interest payments to floating. the corporation has outstanding foreign exchange contracts used to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates for various currencies, including the british pound and the thai baht. at december 31, 2011, the corporation had a payable for foreign exchange contracts maturing in 2012 with a fair value of $14 million. the change in fair value of the foreign exchange contracts from a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate is estimated to be a loss of approximately $89 million at december 31, 2011. the corporation outstanding long-term debt of $6,040 million has a fair value of $7,317 million at december 31, 2011. a 15% decrease in the rate of interest would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $247 million at december 31, 2011. following is the value at risk for the corporation energy marketing and risk management commodity derivatives activities, excluding foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives described above: 2011 2010 (millions of dollars) at december 31 $ 94 $ 5 average 30 5 high 94 6 low 8 4 the increase in the value at risk for the corporation energy marketing and risk management commodity derivatives activities in 2011 primarily reflects additional brent crude oil cash flow hedge positions as described in note 17, risk management and trading activities in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. trading activities trading activities are conducted principally through a trading partnership in which the corporation has a 50% voting interest. this consolidated entity intends to generate earnings through various strategies primarily using energy commodities, securities and derivatives. the corporation also takes trading positions for its own account. 41 table of contents following is the value at risk for the corporation trading activities: 2011 2010 (millions of dollars) at december 31 $ 4 $ 14 average 11 14 high 16 15 low 4 12 the information that follows represents 100% of the trading partnership and the corporation proprietary trading accounts. derivative trading transactions are marked-to-market and unrealized gains or losses are recognized currently in earnings. gains or losses from sales of physical products are recorded at the time of sale. net realized gains on trading activities amounted to $44 million in 2011 and $375 million in 2010. the following table provides an assessment of the factors affecting the changes in fair value of financial instruments and derivative commodity contracts used in trading activities: 2011 2010 (millions of dollars) fair value of contracts outstanding at january 1 $ 94 $ 110 change in fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year and still outstanding at the end of the year (69 ) 10 reversal of fair value for contracts closed during the year 9 (233 ) fair value of contracts entered into during the year and still outstanding (120 ) 207 fair value of contracts outstanding at december 31 $ (86 ) $ 94 the following table summarizes the sources of net asset (liability) fair values of financial instruments and derivative commodity contracts by year of maturity used in the corporation trading activities at december 31, 2011: total 2012 2013 2014 2015 and beyond (millions of dollars) source of fair value level 1 $ (45 ) $ (31 ) $ (3 ) $ (1 ) $ (10 ) level 2 285 276 36 (3 ) (24 ) level 3 (326 ) (325 ) (60 ) 30 29 total $ (86 ) $ (80 ) $ (27 ) $ 26 $ (5 ) the following table summarizes the receivables net of cash margin and letters of credit relating to the corporation trading activities and the credit ratings of counterparties at december 31: 2011 2010 (millions of dollars) investment grade determined by outside sources $ 389 $ 314 investment grade determined internally* 304 272 less than investment grade 89 48 fair value of net receivables outstanding at december 31 $ 782 $ 634 * based on information provided by counterparties and other available sources. 42 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the corporation is exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the prices of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity, as well as to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. in the disclosures that follow, risk management activities are referred to as energy marketing and corporate risk management activities. the corporation also has trading operations, principally through a 50% voting interest in a consolidated partnership, that trades energy-related commodities, securities and derivatives. these activities are also exposed to commodity risks primarily related to the prices of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity. the following describes how these risks are controlled and managed. controls: the corporation maintains a control environment under the direction of its chief risk officer and through its corporate risk policy, which the corporation senior management has approved. controls include volumetric, term and value at risk limits. the chief risk officer must approve the trading of new instruments or commodities. risk limits are monitored and are reported on a daily basis to business units and senior management. the corporation risk management department also performs independent price verifications (ipv s) of sources of fair values, validations of valuation models and analyzes changes in fair value measurements on a daily, monthly and/or quarterly basis. these controls apply to all of the corporation risk management and trading activities, including the consolidated trading partnership. the corporation treasury department is responsible for administering and monitoring foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs using similar controls and processes, where applicable. the corporation uses value at risk to monitor and control commodity risk within its risk management and trading activities. the value at risk model uses historical simulation and the results represent the potential loss in fair value over one day at a 95% confidence level. the model captures both first and second order sensitivities for options. results may vary from time to time as strategies change in trading activities or hedging levels change in risk management activities. instruments: the corporation primarily uses forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, options and energy commodity based securities in its risk management and trading activities. these contracts are generally widely traded instruments with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how the corporation uses them: forward commodity contracts: the corporation enters into contracts for the forward purchase and sale of commodities. at settlement date, the notional value of the contract is exchanged for physical delivery of the commodity. forward contracts that are deemed normal purchase and sale contracts are excluded from the quantitative market risk disclosures. 37 table of contents forward foreign exchange contracts: the corporation enters into forward contracts primarily for the british pound and the thai baht, which commit the corporation to buy or sell a fixed amount of these currencies at a predetermined exchange rate on a future date. exchange traded contracts: the corporation uses exchange traded contracts, including futures, on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and may be subject to exchange position limits. swaps: the corporation uses financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of its risk management and trading activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices or interest rates and are typically settled over the life of the contract. options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, the corporation receives a premium at the outset and bears the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, the corporation pays a premium at the outset and has the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. energy securities: energy securities include energy-related equity or debt securities issued by a company or government or related derivatives on these securities. risk management activities energy marketing activities: in its energy marketing activities, the corporation sells refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity principally to commercial and industrial businesses at fixed and floating prices for varying periods of time. commodity contracts such as futures, forwards, swaps and options together with physical assets, such as storage, are used to obtain supply and reduce margin volatility or lower costs related to sales contracts with customers. corporate risk management: corporate risk management activities include transactions designed to reduce risk in the selling prices of crude oil, refined petroleum products or natural gas produced by the corporation or to reduce exposure to foreign currency or interest rate movements. generally, futures, swaps or option strategies may be used to reduce risk in the selling price of a portion of the corporation crude oil or natural gas production. forward contracts may also be used to purchase certain currencies in which the corporation does business with the intent of reducing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate swaps may also be used, generally to convert fixed-rate interest payments to floating. the corporation has outstanding foreign exchange contracts used to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates for various currencies, including the british pound and the thai baht. at december 31, 2012, the corporation had a receivable for foreign exchange contracts maturing in 2013 with a fair value of $14 million. the change in fair value of the foreign exchange contracts from a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate is estimated to be a loss of approximately $125 million at december 31, 2012. the corporation outstanding long-term debt of $7,361 million, including current maturities, has a fair value of $8,887 million at december 31, 2012. a 15% decrease in the rate of interest would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $200 million at december 31, 2012. following is the value at risk for the corporation energy marketing and risk management commodity derivatives activities, excluding foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives described above: 2012 2011 (in millions) at december 31 $ 7 $ 94 average 49 30 high 95 94 low 7 8 the decrease in the value at risk for the corporation energy marketing and risk management commodity derivatives activities in 2012 primarily reflects the maturing of brent crude oil cash flow hedge positions as described in note 20, risk management and trading activities in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 38 table of contents trading activities trading activities are conducted principally through a trading partnership in which the corporation has a 50% voting interest. this consolidated entity intends to generate earnings through various strategies primarily using energy commodities, securities and derivatives. the corporation also takes trading positions for its own account. following is the value at risk for the corporation trading activities: 2012 2011 (in millions) at december 31 $ 4 $ 4 average 6 11 high 7 16 low 4 4 the information that follows represents 100% of the trading partnership and the corporation proprietary trading accounts. derivative trading transactions are marked-to-market and unrealized gains or losses are recognized currently in earnings. gains or losses from sales of physical products are recorded at the time of sale. net realized gains on trading activities amounted to $60 million in 2012 and $44 million in 2011. the following table provides an assessment of the factors affecting the changes in fair value of financial instruments and derivative commodity contracts used in trading activities: 2012 2011 (in millions) fair value of contracts outstanding at january 1 $ (86 ) $ 94 change in fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year and still outstanding at the end of the year 17 (69 ) reversal of fair value for contracts closed during the year 70 9 fair value of contracts entered into during the year and still outstanding (97 ) (120 ) fair value of contracts outstanding at december 31 $ (96 ) $ (86 ) the following table summarizes the sources of net asset (liability) fair values of financial instruments and derivative commodity contracts by year of maturity used in the corporation trading activities at december 31, 2012: total 2013 2014 2015 2016 and beyond (in millions) sources of fair value level 1 $ 8 $ 38 $ 4 $ (21 ) $ (13 ) level 2 (141 ) (80 ) (30 ) (33 ) 2 level 3 37 10 30 (3 ) total $ (96 ) $ (32 ) $ (26 ) $ (24 ) $ (14 ) the following table summarizes the receivables net of cash margin and letters of credit relating to the corporation trading activities and the credit ratings of counterparties at december 31: 2012 2011 (in millions) investment grade determined by outside sources $ 294 $ 389 investment grade determined internally* 59 304 less than investment grade 39 89 fair value of net receivables outstanding at december 31 $ 392 $ 782 * based on information provided by counterparties and other available sources. 39 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 23, risk management and trading activities. these commitments were computed based predominately on year-end market prices. the table also reflects future capital expenditures, including the portion of the corporation planned capital expenditure program for 2014 that was contractually committed at december 31, 2013. obligations for operating expenses include commitments for transportation, seismic purchases, oil and gas production expenses and other normal business expenses. other long-term liabilities reflect contractually committed obligations in the consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2013, including asset retirement obligations, pension plan liabilities and estimates for uncertain income tax positions. the corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, lease gasoline stations, drilling rigs, tankers, office space and other assets for varying periods under leases accounted for as operating leases. the corporation is contingently liable under $117 million of letters of credit of other entities directly related to its business at december 31, 2013. 34 table of contents off-balance sheet arrangements the corporation has leveraged leases not included in its consolidated balance sheet, primarily related to retail gasoline stations that the corporation operates. the net present value of these leases is $238 million at december 31, 2013 compared with $342 million at december 31, 2012. in connection with the planned divestiture of its retail operations, the corporation plans to either buyout these leveraged leases or sublet the retail gas stations to the divested operations. the corporation estimates that it will incur an after-tax charge of approximately $100 million in connection with a buyout or sublet of the leases. if these leases were included as debt, the corporation december 31, 2013 debt to capitalization ratio would increase to 19.6% from 19.0%. see also note 20, guarantees and contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. foreign operations the corporation conducts exploration and production activities outside the u.s., principally in europe (norway, denmark and france), africa (equatorial guinea, libya, algeria and ghana) and asia and other (malaysia, thailand, australia, brunei, the kurdistan region of iraq and china). therefore, the corporation is subject to the risks associated with foreign operations, including political risk, acts of terrorism, tax law changes and currency risk. see also item 1a. risk factors related to our business and operations. accounting policies critical accounting policies and estimates accounting policies and estimates affect the recognition of assets and liabilities in the corporation consolidated balance sheet and revenues and expenses in the statement of consolidated income. the accounting methods used can affect net income, equity and various financial statement ratios. however, the corporation accounting policies generally do not change cash flows or liquidity. accounting for exploration and development costs: e&amp;p activities are accounted for using the successful efforts method. costs of acquiring unproved and proved oil and gas leasehold acreage, including lease bonuses, brokers fees and other related costs, are capitalized. annual lease rentals, exploration expenses and exploratory dry hole costs are expensed as incurred. costs of drilling and equipping productive wells, including development dry holes, and related production facilities are capitalized. in production operations, costs of injected co 2 for tertiary recovery are expensed as incurred. the costs of exploratory wells that find oil and gas reserves are capitalized pending determination of whether proved reserves have been found. exploratory drilling costs remain capitalized after drilling is completed if (1) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify completion as a producing well and (2) sufficient progress is being made in assessing the reserves and the economic and operational viability of the project. if either of those criteria is not met, or if there is substantial doubt about the economic or operational viability of the project, the capitalized well costs are charged to expense. indicators of sufficient progress in assessing reserves and the economic and operating viability of a project include: commitment of project personnel, active negotiations for sales contracts with customers, negotiations with governments, operators and contractors and firm plans for additional drilling and other factors. crude oil and natural gas reserves: the determination of estimated proved reserves is a significant element in arriving at the results of operations of exploration and production activities. the estimates of proved reserves affect well capitalizations, the unit of production depreciation rates of proved properties and wells and equipment, as well as impairment testing of oil and gas assets and goodwill. for reserves to be booked as proved they must be determined with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. in addition, government and project operator approvals must be obtained and, depending on the amount of the project cost, senior management or the board of directors must commit to fund the project. the corporation maintains its own internal reserve estimates that are calculated by technical staff that work directly with the oil and gas properties. the corporation technical staff updates reserve estimates throughout the year based on evaluations of new wells, performance reviews, new technical data and other studies. to provide consistency throughout the corporation, standard reserve estimation guidelines, definitions, reporting reviews and approval practices are used. the internal reserve estimates are subject to internal technical 35 table of contents audits and senior management review. the corporation also engages an independent third party consulting firm to audit approximately 80% of the corporation total proved reserves. impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill: as explained below, there are significant differences in the way long-lived assets and goodwill are evaluated and measured for impairment testing. the corporation reviews long-lived assets, including oil and gas fields, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recovered. long-lived assets are tested based on identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. if the carrying amounts of the long-lived assets are not expected to be recovered by undiscounted future net cash flow estimates, the assets are impaired and an impairment loss is recorded. the amount of impairment is based on the estimated fair value of the assets generally determined by discounting anticipated future net cash flows, an income valuation approach, or by a market-based valuation approach, which are level 3 fair value measurements. in the case of oil and gas fields, the present value of future net cash flows is based on management best estimate of future prices, which is determined with reference to recent historical prices and published forward prices, applied to projected production volumes and discounted at a risk-adjusted rate. the projected production volumes represent reserves, including probable reserves, expected to be produced based on a stipulated amount of capital expenditures. the production volumes, prices and timing of production are consistent with internal projections and other externally reported information. oil and gas prices used for determining asset impairments will generally differ from those used in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, since the standardized measure requires the use of historical twelve month average prices. the corporation impairment tests of long-lived e&amp;p producing assets are based on its best estimates of future production volumes (including recovery factors), selling prices, operating and capital costs, the timing of future production and other factors, which are updated each time an impairment test is performed. the corporation could have impairments if the projected production volumes from oil and gas fields decrease, crude oil and natural gas selling prices decline significantly for an extended period or future estimated capital and operating costs increase significantly. the corporation goodwill is tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the goodwill may not be recoverable. the goodwill test is conducted at a reporting unit level, which is defined in accounting standards as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. the reporting unit or units to be used in an evaluation and measurement of goodwill for impairment testing are determined from a number of factors, including the manner in which the business is managed. following a reorganization of its management structure in 2013, the corporation has concluded that within its e&amp;p segment it has two reporting units, offshore and onshore, consistent with the manner in which performance is assessed by the segment manager. accordingly, the corporation expects that the benefits of goodwill will be recovered through the operations of each of its reporting units. the corporation fair value estimate of each reporting unit is the sum of the discounted anticipated cash flows of producing assets and known developments and an estimated market premium to reflect the market price an acquirer would pay for potential synergies including cost savings, access to new business opportunities, enterprise control and increased market share. the corporation also considers the relative market valuation of similar onshore and offshore peer companies. the determination of the fair value of each reporting unit depends on estimates about oil and gas reserves, future prices, timing of future net cash flows and market premiums. significant extended declines in crude oil and natural gas prices or reduced reserve estimates could lead to a decrease in the fair value of a reporting unit that could result in an impairment of goodwill. as there are significant differences in the way long-lived assets and goodwill are evaluated and measured for impairment testing, there may be impairments of individual assets that would not cause an impairment of the goodwill assigned at the reporting unit level. income taxes: judgments are required in the determination and recognition of income tax assets and liabilities in the financial statements. these judgments include the requirement to only recognize the financial statement effect of a tax position when management believes that it is more likely than not, that based on the technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. the corporation has net operating loss carryforwards or credit carryforwards in several jurisdictions, including the united states, and has recorded deferred tax assets for those losses and credits. additionally, the corporation has deferred tax assets due to temporary differences between the book basis and tax basis of certain assets and liabilities. regular assessments are made as to the likelihood of those deferred tax assets being realized. if it is more likely than not that some or all of the 36 table of contents deferred tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that is expected to be realized. in evaluating realizability of deferred tax assets, the corporation refers to the reversal periods for available carryforward periods for net operating losses and credit carryforwards, temporary differences, the availability of tax planning strategies, the existence of appreciated assets and estimates of future taxable income and other factors. estimates of future taxable income are based on assumptions of oil and gas reserves and selling prices that are consistent with the corporation internal business forecasts. additionally, the corporation has income taxes which have been deferred on intercompany transactions eliminated in consolidation related to transfers of property, plant and equipment remaining within the consolidated group. the amortization of these income taxes deferred on intercompany transactions will occur ratably with the recovery through depletion and depreciation of the carrying value of these assets. the corporation does not provide for deferred u.s. income taxes for that portion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. asset retirement obligations: the corporation has material legal obligations to remove and dismantle long-lived assets and to restore land or seabed at certain exploration and production locations. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the corporation recognizes a liability for the fair value of required asset retirement obligations. in addition, the fair value of any legally required conditional asset retirement obligations is recorded if the liability can be reasonably estimated. the corporation capitalizes such costs as a component of the carrying amount of the underlying assets in the period in which the liability is incurred. in order to measure these obligations, the corporation estimates the fair value of the obligations by discounting the future payments that will be required to satisfy the obligations. in determining these estimates, the corporation is required to make several assumptions and judgments related to the scope of dismantlement, timing of settlement, interpretation of legal requirements, inflationary factors and discount rate. in addition, there are other external factors which could significantly affect the ultimate settlement costs for these obligations including changes in environmental regulations and other statutory requirements, fluctuations in industry costs and foreign currency exchange rates and advances in technology. as a result, the corporation estimates of asset retirement obligations are subject to revision due to the factors described above. changes in estimates prior to settlement result in adjustments to both the liability and related asset values. retirement plans: the corporation has funded non-contributory defined benefit pension plans and an unfunded supplemental pension plan. the corporation recognizes in the consolidated balance sheet the net change in the funded status of the projected benefit obligation for these plans. the determination of the obligations and expenses related to these plans are based on several actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the discount rate for measuring the present value of future plan obligations; expected long-term rates of return on plan assets; and rate of future increases in compensation levels. these assumptions represent estimates made by the corporation, some of which can be affected by external factors. for example, the discount rate used to estimate the corporation projected benefit obligation is based on a portfolio of high-quality, fixed income debt instruments with maturities that approximate the expected payment of plan obligations, while the expected return on plan assets is developed from the expected future returns for each asset category, weighted by the target allocation of pension assets to that asset category. changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on the amounts reported in the corporation financial statements. derivatives: the corporation utilizes derivative instruments for both risk management and trading activities. in risk management activities, the corporation uses futures, forwards, options and swaps, individually or in combination to mitigate its exposure to fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity, as well as changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. in trading activities, the corporation, principally through a consolidated partnership, trades energy-related commodities and derivatives, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, based on expectations of future market conditions. all derivative instruments are recorded at fair value in the corporation consolidated balance sheet. the corporation policy for recognizing the changes in fair value of derivatives varies based on the designation of the derivative. the changes in fair value of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are recognized currently in earnings. derivatives may be designated as hedges of expected future cash flows or forecasted transactions (cash flow hedges) or hedges of firm commitments (fair value hedges). the effective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income (loss). amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for cash flow hedges are reclassified into earnings in the same period that the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recorded currently in earnings. changes in fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recognized currently in earnings. the change in fair value of the related hedged commitment is recorded as an adjustment to its carrying amount and recognized currently in earnings. 37 table of contents derivatives that are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges are tested for effectiveness prospectively before they are executed and both prospectively and retrospectively on an on-going basis to determine whether they continue to qualify for hedge accounting. the prospective and retrospective effectiveness calculations are performed using either historical simulation or other statistical models, which utilize historical observable market data consisting of futures curves and spot prices. fair value measurements: the corporation derivative instruments are recorded at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings or other comprehensive income each period as appropriate. the corporation uses various valuation approaches in determining fair value, including the market and income approaches. the corporation fair value measurements also include non-performance risk and time value of money considerations. counterparty credit is considered for receivable balances, and the corporation credit is considered for accrued liabilities. the corporation also records certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities at fair value when required by generally accepted accounting principles. these fair value measurements are recorded in connection with business combinations, qualifying non-monetary exchanges, the initial recognition of asset retirement obligations and any impairment of long-lived assets, equity method investments or goodwill. the corporation determines fair value in accordance with the fair value measurements accounting standard which established a hierarchy for the inputs used to measure fair value based on the source of the inputs, which generally range from quoted prices for identical instruments in a principal trading market (level 1) to estimates determined using related market data (level 3). measurements derived indirectly from observable inputs or from quoted prices from markets that are less liquid are considered level 2. when level 1 inputs are available within a particular market, those inputs are selected for determination of fair value over level 2 or 3 inputs in the same market. to value derivatives that are characterized as level 2 and 3, the corporation uses observable inputs for similar instruments that are available from exchanges, pricing services or broker quotes. these observable inputs may be supplemented with other methods, including internal extrapolation or interpolation, that result in the most representative prices for instruments with similar characteristics. multiple inputs may be used to measure fair value, however, the level of fair value for each physical derivative and financial asset or liability is based on the lowest significant input level within this fair value hierarchy. details on the methods and assumptions used to determine the fair values are as follows: fair value measurements based on level 1 inputs: measurements that are most observable are based on quoted prices of identical instruments obtained from the principal markets in which they are traded. closing prices are both readily available and representative of fair value. market transactions occur with sufficient frequency and volume to assure liquidity. the fair value of certain of the corporation exchange traded futures and options are considered level 1. fair value measurements based on level 2 inputs: measurements derived indirectly from observable inputs or from quoted prices from markets that are less liquid are considered level 2. measurements based on level 2 inputs include over-the-counter derivative instruments that are priced on an exchange traded curve but have contractual terms that are not identical to exchange traded contracts. the corporation utilizes fair value measurements based on level 2 inputs for certain forwards, swaps and options. fair value measurements based on level 3 inputs: measurements that are least observable are estimated from related market data determined from sources with little or no market activity for comparable contracts or are positions with longer durations. for example, the corporation sold natural gas and electricity to customers and offsets the price exposure by purchasing forward contracts. the fair value of these sales and purchases may be based on specific prices at less liquid delivered locations, which are classified as level 3. fair values determined using discounted cash flows and other unobservable data are also classified as level 3. impairment of equity investees: the corporation reviews equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an other than temporary decline in value may have occurred. the fair value measurement used in the impairment assessment is based on quoted market prices, where available, or other valuation techniques, including discounted cash flows. 38 table of contents environment, health and safety the corporation long term vision and values provide a foundation for how we do business and define our commitment to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship and creating a long lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business. the corporation strategy is reflected in its environment, health, safety and social responsibility (ehs &amp; sr) policies and by a management system framework that helps protect the corporation workforce, customers and local communities. the corporation management systems are intended to promote internal consistency, adherence to policy objectives and continual improvement in ehs &amp; sr performance. improved performance may, in the short-term, increase the corporation operating costs and could also require increased capital expenditures to reduce potential risks to assets, reputation and license to operate. in addition to enhanced ehs &amp; sr performance, improved productivity and operational efficiencies may be realized from investments in ehs &amp; sr. the corporation has programs in place to evaluate regulatory compliance, audit facilities, train employees, prevent and manage risks and emergencies and to generally meet corporate ehs &amp; sr goals and objectives. the corporation recognizes that climate change is a global environmental concern. the corporation assesses, monitors and takes measures to reduce our carbon footprint at existing and planned operations. the corporation is committed to complying with all greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions mandates and the responsible management of ghg emissions at its facilities. the corporation will have continuing expenditures for environmental assessment and remediation. sites where corrective action may be necessary include onshore exploration and production facilities, and although not currently significant, superfund sites where the corporation has been named a potentially responsible party. the corporation accrues for environmental assessment and remediation expenses when the future costs are probable and reasonably estimable. at year-end 2013, the corporation reserve for estimated remediation liabilities was approximately $65 million. the corporation expects that existing reserves for environmental liabilities will adequately cover costs to assess and remediate known sites. the corporation remediation spending was approximately $16 million in 2013 and $19 million in both 2012 and 2011. capital expenditures for facilities, primarily to comply with federal, state and local environmental standards were approximately $100 million in 2013, $70 million in 2012 and $95 million in 2011. forward-looking information certain sections of this annual report on form 10-k, including business and properties, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, include references to the corporation future results of operations and financial position, liquidity and capital resources, capital expenditures, asset sales, oil and gas production, tax rates, debt repayment, hedging, derivative, market risk and environmental disclosures, off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations and contingencies, which include forward-looking information. these sections typically include statements with words such as anticipate , estimate , expect , forecast , guidance , could , may , should , would or similar words, indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. forward-looking disclosures are based on the corporation current understanding and assessment of these activities and reasonable assumptions about the future. actual results may differ from these disclosures because of changes in market conditions, government actions and other factors. for more information regarding the factors that may cause the corporation results to differ from these statements, see item 1a. risk factors related to our business and operations. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the corporation is exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the prices of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity, as well as to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. in the disclosures that follow, risk management activities are referred to as corporate risk management activities. the corporation also has trading operations, through a 50% voting interest in a consolidated partnership, that trades energy-related commodities, securities and derivatives. these activities are also exposed to commodity risks primarily related to the prices of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity. the following describes how these risks are controlled and managed. in november 2013, the corporation completed the sale of its energy marketing business to direct energy, a north american subsidiary of centrica plc (centrica). certain derivative contracts, including new transactions following the closing date, (the delayed transfer derivative contracts ) have not been transferred to direct energy, as required customer or regulatory consents have not been obtained. however, the agreement entered into between hess and direct energy on the closing date transfers all economic risks and rewards of the energy marketing business, including the ownership of the 39 table of contents delayed transfer derivative contracts, to direct energy. as a result, the assets and liabilities related to the delayed transfer derivative contracts remain on the corporation consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2013 but changes in their fair value are offset based on the terms of the agreement between hess and direct energy. the corporation therefore has no market risk related to these delayed transfer derivative contracts and only retains credit risk exposure, which has been guaranteed by centrica. it is expected that the transfer of these contracts will be substantially complete in the first half of 2014. controls: the corporation maintains a control environment under the direction of its chief risk officer and through its corporate risk policy, which the corporation senior management has approved. controls include volumetric, term and value at risk limits. the chief risk officer must approve the trading of new instruments or commodities. risk limits are monitored and are reported on a daily basis to business units and senior management. the corporation risk management department also performs independent price verifications (ipv s) of sources of fair values and validations of valuation models. these controls apply to all of the corporation risk management and trading activities, including the consolidated trading partnership. the corporation treasury department is responsible for administering and monitoring foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs using similar controls and processes, where applicable. the corporation uses value at risk to monitor and control commodity risk within its risk management and trading activities. the value at risk model uses historical simulation and the results represent the potential loss in fair value over one day at a 95% confidence level. the model captures both first and second order sensitivities for options. results may vary from time to time as strategies change in trading activities or hedging levels change in risk management activities. instruments: the corporation primarily uses forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, options and energy commodity based securities in its risk management and trading activities. these contracts are generally widely traded instruments with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how the corporation uses them: forward commodity contracts: the corporation enters into contracts for the forward purchase and sale of commodities. at settlement date, the notional value of the contract is exchanged for physical delivery of the commodity. forward contracts that are deemed normal purchase and sale contracts are excluded from the quantitative market risk disclosures. forward foreign exchange contracts: the corporation enters into forward contracts, primarily for the british pound and the thai baht, which commit the corporation to buy or sell a fixed amount of these currencies at a predetermined exchange rate on a future date. exchange traded contracts: the corporation uses exchange traded contracts, including futures, on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and may be subject to exchange position limits. swaps: the corporation uses financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of its risk management and trading activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices or interest rates and are typically settled over the life of the contract. options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, the corporation receives a premium at the outset and bears the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, the corporation pays a premium at the outset and has the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. energy securities: energy securities include energy-related equity or debt securities issued by a company or government or related derivatives on these securities. corporate risk management activities corporate risk management activities include transactions designed to reduce risk in the selling prices of crude oil or natural gas produced by the corporation or to reduce exposure to foreign currency or interest rate movements. generally, futures, swaps or option strategies may be used to reduce risk in the selling price of a portion of the corporation crude oil or natural gas production. forward contracts may also be used to purchase certain currencies in which the corporation does 40 table of contents business with the intent of reducing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate swaps may also be used, generally to convert fixed-rate interest payments to floating. the corporation has entered into brent crude oil fixed price swap contracts to hedge 25,000 boepd for calendar year 2014 at an average price of $109.12 per barrel. the corporation has outstanding foreign exchange contracts used to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates for various currencies. the change in fair value of foreign exchange contracts from a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate is estimated to be a gain of approximately $4 million at december 31, 2013. the corporation outstanding long-term debt of $5,798 million, including current maturities, had a fair value of $6,641 million at december 31, 2013. a 15% decrease in the rate of interest would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $160 million at december 31, 2013. a 15% increase in the rate of interest would decrease the fair value of debt by approximately $150 million at december 31, 2013. following is the value at risk for the corporation risk management commodity derivatives activities associated with continuing operations, excluding foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives described above: 2013 2012 (in millions) at december 31 $ 13 $ average 27 47 high 44 95 low 13 the increase in the value at risk for the corporation risk management commodity derivatives activities at december 31, 2013 is primarily due to the new brent crude oil cash flow hedge positions entered in december 2013 as described in note 23, risk management and trading activities in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. trading activities trading activities are conducted through a trading partnership in which the corporation has a 50% voting interest that is currently for sale. the partnership intends to generate earnings through various strategies primarily using energy related commodities, securities and derivatives. following is the value at risk for the corporation trading activities: 2013 2012 (in millions) at december 31 $ 4 $ 4 average 4 6 high 5 7 low 3 4 the information that follows represents 100% of the trading partnership. derivative trading transactions are marked-to-market and unrealized gains or losses are recognized currently in earnings. gains or losses from sales of physical products are recorded at the time of sale. net realized gains on trading activities amounted to $191 million in 2013 and $60 million in 2012. the following table provides an assessment of the factors affecting the changes in fair value of net assets (liabilities) relating to financial instruments and derivative commodity contracts used in trading activities: 2013 2012 (in millions) fair value of contracts outstanding at january 1 $ (96 ) $ (86 ) change in fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year and still outstanding at the end of the year 10 17 reversal of fair value for contracts closed during the year 10 70 fair value of contracts entered into during the year and still outstanding (85 ) (97 ) fair value of contracts outstanding at december 31 $ (161 ) $ (96 ) 41 table of contents the following table summarizes the sources of net asset (liability) fair values of financial instruments and derivative commodity contracts by year of maturity used in the corporation trading activities at december 31, 2013: total 2014 2015 2016 2017 and beyond (in millions) sources of fair value level 1 $ 130 $ 153 $ (8 ) $ (15 ) $ level 2 (307 ) (267 ) (42 ) 2 level 3 16 2 17 (2 ) (1 ) total $ (161 ) $ (112 ) $ (33 ) $ (15 ) $ (1 ) the following table summarizes the fair values of receivables net of cash margin and letters of credit relating to the corporation trading activities and the credit ratings of counterparties at december 31: 2013 2012 (in millions) investment grade determined by outside sources $ 187 $ 294 investment grade determined internally* 58 59 less than investment grade 47 39 fair value of net receivables outstanding at december 31 $ 292 $ 392 * based on information provided by counterparties and other available sources. 42 table of contentsrisk factors within this document. 1 part i items 1 and 2. business and properties hess corporation, incorporated in the state of delaware in 1920, is a global exploration and production (e&amp;p) company engaged in exploration, development, production, transportation, purchase and sale of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas with production operations located primarily in the united states (u.s.), denmark, equatorial guinea, the joint development area of malaysia/thailand (jda), malaysia, and norway. the bakken midstream operating segment, which was established in the second quarter of 2015, provides fee-based services, including crude oil and natural gas gathering, processing of natural gas and the fractionation of natural gas liquids, transportation of crude oil by rail car, terminaling and loading crude oil and natural gas liquids, and the storage and terminaling of propane, primarily in the bakken shale play of north dakota. in july 2015, we sold a 50% interest in hess infrastructure partners lp (hip) for net cash consideration of approximately $2.6 billion. hip and its affiliates primarily comprise the bakken midstream operating segment. in 2013, we announced several initiatives to continue our transformation from an integrated energy company into a more geographically focused pure play e&amp;p company. these initiatives represented the culmination of a multi-year strategic transformation designed to leverage our lean manufacturing capabilities across unconventional assets, exploit our deepwater drilling and project development capabilities, and execute a smaller, more targeted exploration program. this transformation was completed in 2015. during 2013 through 2015, the corporation sold mature or lower margin e&amp;p assets in algeria, azerbaijan, indonesia, russia, thailand, the united kingdom (uk) north sea, and certain interests onshore in the u.s. in addition, the transformation plan included fully exiting the corporation's marketing and refining (m&amp;r) business, including its terminal, retail, energy marketing and energy trading operations, as well as the permanent shutdown of refining operations at its port reading, nj facility. hovensa l.l.c. (hovensa), a 50/50 joint venture between the corporation's subsidiary, hess oil virgin islands corp. (hovic), and a subsidiary of petroleos de venezuela s.a. (pdvsa), had previously shut down its u.s. virgin islands refinery in 2012 and continued operating solely as an oil storage terminal through the first quarter of 2015. in september 2015, hovensa filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code in the united states district court of the virgin islands. in december 2015, the government of st. croix ratified a new operating agreement with the buyer of hovensa's storage terminals, refining units, and marine infrastructure (st. croix facility) and in january 2016, the buyer completed the purchase of the assets of the st. croix facility. under the court approved chapter 11 plan of liquidation (the liquidation plan ), hovensa established a liquidating trust to distribute certain assets and sale proceeds to its creditors, established an environmental response trust to administer to hovensa's remaining environmental obligations and will conduct an orderly wind-down of its remaining activities. see item 3. legal proceedings . see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further details. 2 exploration and production proved reserves proved reserves are calculated using the average price during the twelve month period ending december 31 determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of each month within the year, unless prices are defined by contractual agreements, excluding escalations based on future conditions. crude oil prices used in the determination of proved reserves at december 31, 2015 were $55.10 per barrel for brent (2014: $101.35) and $50.13 per barrel for wti (2014: $94.42). negative reserve revisions resulting from lower crude oil prices in 2015 reduced proved reserves at december 31, 2015 by 234 million barrels of oil equivalent (boe), and represent the primary reason for the decrease in total proved reserves year-on-year. these negative revisions represent primarily proved undeveloped reserves that were not economically producible at the stipulated lower prices. our total proved developed and undeveloped reserves at december 31 were as follows: crude oil, condensate &amp; total barrels of oil natural gas liquids (a) natural gas equivalent (boe) (b) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 (millions of barrels) (millions of mcf) (millions of barrels) developed united states 304 320 368 350 365 378 europe (c) 126 123 123 96 147 139 africa 148 163 137 144 171 187 asia 5 3 643 329 112 58 583 609 1,271 919 795 762 undeveloped united states 116 311 137 270 139 356 europe (c) 104 168 111 124 122 189 africa 24 25 11 11 26 27 asia 4 24 557 4 97 244 508 283 962 291 669 total united states 420 631 505 620 504 734 europe (c) 230 291 234 220 269 328 africa 172 188 148 155 197 214 asia 5 7 667 886 116 155 827 1,117 1,554 1,881 1,086 1,431 (a) total proved reserves of natural gas liquids were 101 million barrels (proved developed - 63 million barrels; proved undeveloped 38 million barrels) at december 31, 2015, and 145 million barrels (proved developed - 65 million barrels; proved undeveloped - 80 million barrels) at december 31, 2014. of the total proved natural gas liquids reserves, 72% were in the u.s. and 28% were in norway at december 31, 2015 (2014: 82% and 18%, respectively). natural gas liquids do not sell at prices equivalent to crude oil. see the average selling prices in the table on page 8. (b) reflects natural gas reserves converted on the basis of relative energy content of six mcf equals one barrel of oil equivalent (one mcf represents one thousand cubic feet). barrel of oil equivalence does not necessarily result in price equivalence, as the equivalent price of natural gas on a barrel of oil equivalent basis has been substantially lower than the corresponding price for crude oil over the recent past. see the average selling prices in the table on page 8. (c) proved reserves in norway, which represented 21% of our total reserves at december 31, 2015 (2014: 20%), were as follows: crude oil, condensate &amp; total barrels of oil natural gas liquids natural gas equivalent (boe) (b) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 (millions of barrels) (millions of mcf) (millions of barrels) developed 98 95 84 67 112 106 undeveloped 100 161 107 113 118 180 total 198 256 191 180 230 286 proved undeveloped reserves were 27% of our total proved reserves at december 31, 2015 on a boe basis (2014: 47%). proved reserves held under production sharing contracts totaled 5% of our crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves, and 44% of our natural gas reserves at december 31, 2015 (2014: 5% and 49%, respectively). for additional information regarding our proved oil and gas reserves, see the supplementary oil and gas data to the consolidated financial statements presented on pages 83 through 91, which includes a discussion of the implications that potential sustained lower crude oil prices may have on proved reserves at december 31, 2016. 3 production worldwide crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas production was as follows: 2015 2014 2013 crude oil (thousands of barrels per day) united states bakken 81 66 55 other onshore 10 10 10 total onshore 91 76 65 offshore 56 51 43 total united states 147 127 108 europe norway 27 25 20 denmark 11 11 8 russia 16 38 36 44 africa equatorial guinea 44 43 44 libya 4 13 algeria 7 7 5 51 54 62 asia azerbaijan 2 indonesia 5 joint development area of malaysia/thailand (jda) and other 2 3 4 2 3 11 total 238 220 225 2015 2014 2013 natural gas liquids (thousands of barrels per day) united states bakken 20 10 6 other onshore 12 7 4 total onshore 32 17 10 offshore 6 6 5 total united states 38 23 15 europe 1 1 1 asia 1 total 39 24 17 4 2015 2014 2013 natural gas (thousands of mcf per day) united states bakken 64 40 38 other onshore 109 47 25 total onshore 173 87 63 offshore 87 78 61 total united states 260 165 124 europe norway 28 25 15 denmark 15 11 7 united kingdom 1 43 36 23 asia and other joint development area of malaysia/thailand (jda) 230 222 235 thailand 29 87 indonesia 1 52 malaysia (a) 52 60 33 other 11 282 312 418 total 585 513 565 barrels of oil equivalent (per day) (b) 375 329 336 (a) includes 15 mmcf, 20 mmcf, and 27 mmcf per day of production for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively from block pm301 which is unitized into the jda. (b) reflects natural gas production converted on the basis of relative energy conte nt (six mcf equals one barrel of oil equivalent). barrel of oil equivalence does not necessarily result in price equivalence as the equivalent price of natural gas on a barrel of oil equivalent basis has been substantially lower than the corresponding price for crude oil over the recent past. in addition, natural gas liquids do not sell at prices equivalent to crude oil. see the average selling prices in the table on page 8. e&amp;p operations a description of our significant e&amp;p operations is as follows: united states our production in the u.s. was from onshore properties, principally in the bakken oil shale play in the williston basin of north dakota, the utica basin of ohio, the permian basin of texas and offshore properties in the gulf of mexico. onshore: bakken: at december 31, 2015, we held 583,000 net acres in the bakken. during 2015, we operated an average of 8.5 rigs, drilled 182 wells, completed 212 wells, and brought on production 219 wells, bringing the total operated production wells to 1,201. in 2016, we plan to operate an average of 2 rigs to drill approximately 50 wells and bring approximately 80 wells on production. the improved efficiency of our drilling operations can largely be attributed to application of our lean manufacturing capabilities. utica: we own a 50% working interest in approximately 50,000 net acres in the wet gas area of the utica basin of ohio. during 2015, a total of 24 wells were drilled, 32 wells were completed and 32 wells were brought on production. in june 2015, we and our joint venture partner reduced drilling activity to a single hess operated rig, and in 2016 we plan to suspend drilling activities after we bring onto production 14 wells. in 2015, we sold approximately 13,000 acres of utica dry gas acreage for consideration of approximately $120 million. permian: we operate and hold a 34% interest in the seminole san andres unit in the permian basin. offshore: at december 31, 2015, we held interests in 108 blocks in the deepwater gulf of mexico. our production offshore in the gulf of mexico was principally from the tubular bells (hess 57%), shenzi (hess 28%), llano (hess 50%), conger (hess 38%), baldpate (hess 50%), hack wilson (hess 25%) and penn state (hess 50%) fields. in addition, we are operator of the stampede development project (hess 25%) and have interests in non-operated exploration blocks including sicily (hess 25%) and melmar (hess 35%). at december 31, 2015, we held 75 exploration blocks containing approximately 250,000 net undeveloped acres of which leases for 46 exploration blocks containing 165,000 net undeveloped acres are due to expire in the next three years. during 2015, our interests in 73 exploration blocks expired or were relinquished. 5 descriptions of our significant operations in the offshore, u.s. is as follows: tubular bells : at this hess operated field, we achieved our first full year of production following first oil in late 2014. four production wells have been completed to date. in 2016, we intend to complete one water injector well, drill one production well, perform two wellbore stimulations, and complete a workover on a third well to open a stuck subsurface safety valve. shenzi: at this bhp billiton petroleum operated field, drilling continued during 2015 with the completion of two production wells and one appraisal well. in 2016, the operator plans to complete a water injection well. stampede: at this hess operated project in the green canyon area of the gulf of mexico, the co-owners sanctioned the field development and committed to two deepwater drilling rigs in 2014. the first rig is expected to commence drilling in the first quarter of 2016 and the second rig is expected to commence drilling in the first quarter of 2017. construction of production facilities and subsea equipment is underway, with first production from the field targeted for 2018 at an expected net rate of 15,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd). sicily: at this chevron operated prospect in the keathley canyon area of the deepwater gulf of mexico, the operator successfully completed drilling and logging activities of its initial exploration well in 2015. the discovery well was drilled to a depth of 30,214 feet and is being evaluated. drilling of an appraisal well to further evaluate the discovery commenced in december 2015. melmar: at this conocophillips operated prospect in the alaminos canyon area of the deepwater gulf of mexico, the operator commenced drilling of an initial exploration well in december 2015. europe norway: at the bp operated offshore valhall f ield (hess 64%), in 2015 the operator drilled one well and completed three wells. i n the first quarter of 2013, the operator completed the installation of a new production, utilities and accommodation platform that extended the field life by approximately 40 years. in 2016, the operator is expected to continue a multi-year well abandonment program. denmark: at the hess operated offshore south arne field (hess 62%), we expect to complete drilling of a previously sanctioned eleven well multi-year program in the first quarter of 2016. africa equatorial guinea: at the hess operated offshore block g (hess 85% paying interest, national oil company of equatorial guinea 5% carried interest), we have production from the okume and ceiba fields. in 2015, we deferred the remaining portion of an infill drilling program on the okume field. algeria: prior to its sale on december 31, 2015, we had a 49% interest in a venture with the algerian national oil company that redeveloped three onshore oil fields. ghana: at the hess operated offshore deepwater tano/cape three points license (hess 50% license interest), we have drilled seven successful exploration wells on the block since 2011. in may 2013, we submitted appraisal plans for each of the seven discoveries, which comprise both oil and natural gas, to the ghanaian government for approval. five appraisal plans have been approved and discussions continue with the ghanaian government to receive approval on the remaining two appraisal plans. in 2014, we drilled three successful appraisal wells. well results continue to be evaluated and development planning is progressing. the government of c te d'ivoire has challenged the maritime border between it and the country of ghana, which includes a portion of our deepwater tano / cape three points license. we are unable to proceed with development of this license until there is a resolution of this matter, which may also impact our ability to develop the license. the international tribunal for law of the sea is expected to render a final ruling on the maritime border dispute in 2017. under terms of our license, the deadline to declare commerciality for the pecan field, which would be the primary development hub for the block, is in march 2016, and the deadline to submit a plan of development is in september 2016. we have requested an extension of the submission deadline for a plan of development for the pecan field, and will continue to work with the government on how best to progress work on the block given the maritime border dispute. see capitalized exploratory well costs in note 5, property, plant and equipment in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details of wells capitalized at december 31, 2015 and previously capitalized well costs charged to expense in 2015. libya: at the onshore waha concession in libya, which include the defa, faregh, gialo, north gialo and belhedan fields (hess 8%), the operator shut in production in 2015 and for much of 2014 due to civil unrest. net production averaged 4,000 bopd in 2014 and 13,000 bopd in 2013. since december 2014, the national oil company of libya has declared force majeure with respect to the waha concession. we have after-tax net book value in our libyan operations of approximately $120 million and total proved reserves of 159 million boe at december 31, 2015. 6 asia and other joint development area of malaysia/thailand (jda) : at the carigali hess operated offshore block a-18 in the gulf of thailand ( hess 50% ), the operator continued development drilling in 2015 and made progress on a booster compression project that is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2016. malaysia: our production in malaysia comes from our interest in block pm301 (hess 50%), which is adjacent to and is unitized with block a 18 of the jda and our 50% interest in blocks pm302, pm325 and pm326b located in the north malay basin (nmb), offshore peninsular malaysia, where we operate a multi phase natural gas development project. nmb achieved first production in october 2013 from an early production system. we expect net production to increase from approximately 40 million cubic feet per day in 2016 to approximately 165 million cubic feet per day following the completion of full field development in 2017. australia: at the wa 390 p block (hess 100%) in the carnarvon basin, offshore western australia (also known as equus) covering approximately 780,000 acres, we have drilled 13 natural gas discoveries. in late 2014, we executed a non-binding letter of intent with a potential liquefaction partner and began joint front-end engineering studies in 2015. discussions with potential long-term purchasers of liquefied natural gas were also initiated in 2015. successful negotiation of a binding agreement with the third-party liquefaction partner is necessary before we can execute a gas sales agreement and sanction development of the project. at our adjacent wa-474-p block (hess 100%), which could become part of the equus project, we plan to drill a commitment well in 2016. see capitalized exploratory well costs in note 5, property, plant and equipment in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details of wells capitalized at december 31, 2015 and previously capitalized well costs charged to expense in 2015. guyana: at the esso exploration and production guyana limited operated offshore stabroek block (hess 30% participating interest), the operator announced a significant oil discovery at the liza-1 well in the second quarter of 2015. the operator plans to drill two appraisal wells, including one sidetrack with a production test, and two exploration wells in 2016. a new 17,000 square kilometer 3d seismic shoot is near completion and the operator, along with its partners, continues to evaluate the resource potential of the block. kurdistan region of iraq: we relinquished our interests at the hess operated dinarta block (80% paying interest, 64% working interest), and exited operations in the region in 2015. canada: in 2014 we acquired a 40% participating interest in four exploration licenses offshore nova scotia. we expect the operator, bp, to drill the first exploration well in 2017 and a second exploration well in 2018. sales commitments we have contracts to sell fixed quantities of our natural gas and natural gas liquids production. the natural gas contracts principally relate to producing fields in asia. the most significant of these net commitments relates to the jda where the minimum contract quantity of natural gas is estimated at 48 billion cubic feet per year based on current entitlements under a sales contract with the national oil companies of malaysia and thailand expiring in 2027. at the north malay basin development project, we have a commitment to deliver a minimum of 12 billion cubic feet of natural gas per year through 2033 from full field development start-up, which is expected in 2017. the company's estimated total volume of production subject to sales commitments is approximately 0.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. we also have natural gas liquids delivery commitments in the bakken and permian basin of texas through 2023 of approximately 9 million barrels per year, or approximately 97 million barrels over the life of the contracts. we have not experienced any significant constraints in satisfying the committed quantities required by our sales commitments, and we anticipate being able to meet future requirements from available proved and probable reserves and projected third-party supply. 7 selling prices and production costs the following table presents our average selling prices and average production costs: 2015 2014 2013 average selling prices (a) crude oil - per barrel (including hedging) united states onshore $ 42.67 $ 81.89 $ 90.00 offshore 46.21 95.05 103.83 total united states 44.01 87.21 95.50 europe (b) 55.10 104.21 88.03 africa 53.89 97.31 108.70 asia 52.74 89.71 107.40 worldwide 47.85 92.59 98.48 crude oil - per barrel (excluding hedging) united states onshore $ 41.22 $ 81.89 $ 89.81 offshore 46.21 92.22 103.15 total united states 43.11 86.06 95.11 europe (b) 52.37 99.20 87.45 africa 51.57 93.70 108.07 asia 52.74 89.71 107.40 worldwide 46.37 90.20 98.01 natural gas liquids - per barrel united states onshore $ 9.18 $ 28.92 $ 43.14 offshore 14.40 30.40 29.18 total united states 10.02 29.32 38.07 europe (b) 24.59 52.66 58.31 asia 74.94 worldwide 10.52 30.59 40.68 natural gas - per mcf united states onshore $ 1.64 $ 3.18 $ 3.08 offshore 2.03 3.79 2.83 total united states 1.77 3.47 2.96 europe (b) 6.72 10.00 11.06 asia and other 5.97 6.94 7.50 worldwide 4.16 6.04 6.64 average production (lifting) costs per barrel of oil equivalent produced (c) united states onshore $ 21.17 $ 27.08 $ 25.55 offshore 7.03 5.06 4.98 total united states 16.46 18.32 17.16 europe (b) 23.73 29.14 36.02 africa 23.31 22.39 19.26 asia and other 8.46 10.67 12.89 worldwide 17.23 19.14 19.28 (a) includes inter company transfers valued at approximate market prices adjusted for certain processing and distribution fees. (b) the average selling prices in norway for 2015 were $54.89 per barrel for crude oil (including hedging), $52.15 per barrel for crude oil (excluding hedging), $24.59 per barrel for natural gas liquids and $8.58 per mcf for natural gas (2014: $105.35, $100.34, $52.13 and $12.22, respectively; 2013: $110.25, $109.41, $57.87 and $13.50, respectively). the average production (lifting) costs in norway were $25.94 per barrel of oil equivalent in 2015 (2014: $33.76; 2013: $44.69). (c) production (lifting) costs consist of amounts incurred to operate and maintain our producing oil and gas wells, related equipment and facilities, transportation costs (including bakken midstream tariff expense starting in 2014, which amounted to $3.28 per barrel of oil equivalent in 2015 and $1.77 per barrel of oil equivalent in 2014) and production and severance taxes. the average production costs per barrel of oil equivalent reflect the crude oil equivalent of natural gas production converted on the basis of relative energy content (six mcf equals one barrel). lifting costs included in the table above do not include costs of finding and developing proved oil and gas reserves, or the costs of related general and administrative expenses, interest expense and income taxes. 8 gross and n et undeveloped acreage at december 31, 2015 gross and net undeveloped acreage amounted to: undeveloped acreage (a) gross net (in thousands) united states 716 459 europe 9 1 africa 6,433 3,123 asia and other 14,883 6,974 total (b) 22,041 10,557 (a) includes acreage held under production sharing contracts. (b) at december 31, 2015, licenses covering approximately 48% of our net undeveloped acreage held are scheduled to expire during the next three years pending the results of exploration activities. these scheduled expirations are largely in australia and africa. gross and net developed acreage, and productive wells at december 31, 2015 gross and net developed acreage and productive wells amounted to: developed acreage applicable to productive wells (a) productive wells oil gas gross net gross net gross net (in thousands) united states 1,288 824 2,724 1,300 156 78 europe (b) 102 59 69 44 africa 9,629 833 779 104 asia and other 259 129 88 44 total 11,278 1,845 3,572 1,448 244 122 (a) includes multiple completion wells (wells producing from different formations in the same bore hole) totaling 101 gross wells and 59 net wells. (b) gross and net developed acreage in norway was approximately 57 thousand and 36 thousand, respectively. gross and net productive oil wells in norway were 49 and 31, respectively. exploratory and development wells net exploratory and net development wells completed during the years ended december 31 were: net exploratory wells net development wells 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 productive wells united states 8 10 181 202 146 europe 5 4 1 africa 2 2 4 2 asia and other 3 4 1 4 18 3 10 16 187 214 167 dry holes united states 1 europe 3 africa 1 asia and other 5 3 1 6 4 4 total 9 14 20 187 214 167 number of wells in the process of being drilled at december 31, 2015 the number of wells in the process of drilling amounted to: gross net wells wells united states 70 29 europe 1 1 asia and other 4 2 total 75 32 9 bakken midstream we hold a 50% interest in hip following the sale in july 2015 of a 50% interest to global infrastructure partners (gip) for net cash consideration of approximately $2.6 billion. hip and its affiliates primarily comprise the bakken midstream operating segment which provides fee-based services including crude oil and natural gas gathering, processing of natural gas and the fractionation of natural gas liquids, terminaling and loading crude oil and natural gas liquids, transportation of crude oil by rail car and the storage and terminaling of propane, primarily in the bakken shale play in the williston basin area of north dakota. the bakken midstream operating segment currently generates substantially all of its revenues under long-term, fee-based agreements with our e&amp;p operating segment but intends to pursue additional throughput volumes from third parties in the williston basin area. we operate the bakken midstream assets and operations, including routine and emergency maintenance and repair services under various operational and administrative services agreements. prior to 2014, when providing natural gas processing services, our bakken midstream operating segment did not operate under a tariff arrangement and instead purchased unprocessed natural gas and provided processing services pursuant to percentage-of-proceeds contracts whereby it retained a portion of the sales proceeds received from both our e&amp;p operating segment and third-party customers. pursuant to these contracts, the bakken midstream operating segment also charged certain additional fees. the remaining proceeds were remitted back to suppliers. bakken midstream assets include the following: tioga gas plant: the tioga gas plant is a natural gas processing plant is located in tioga, north dakota. the plant currently has a cryogenic processing capacity of 250 thousand mcf per day (mmcfd) and integrated fractionation capacity (including ethane) of 60,000 boepd following the completion of an expansion project in the first quarter of 2014. in 2015, we completed construction of a compressed natural gas (cng) terminal at the tioga gas plant that has a cng compression capacity of 17,000 diesel equivalent gallons per day. tioga rail terminal : the tioga rail terminal is a crude oil and natural gas liquids rail loading facility located in tioga, north dakota, that includes a dual loop track with 21 crude oil loading arms. the terminal has a current crude oil loading capacity of up to 140,000 barrels of oil per day (bopd), and an estimated natural gas liquids loading capacity of approximately 30,000 bopd. the terminal also has three crude oil storage tanks with a combined shell storage capacity of 287,000 barrels. crude oil train units : hip owns a total of 1,215 crude oil rail cars at december 31, 2015 that operate as unit trains each consisting of 100 to 110 crude oil rail cars to provide crude oil transportation services to various delivery points in the east coast, west coast and gulf coast regions of the united states. of these, 956 crude oil rail cars were constructed between may 2011 and march 2012 to aar petition 1577 (cpc-1232) safety standards and are capable of being upgraded to the most recent dot-117 safety standards. the bakken midstream operating segment entered into a prepaid forward purchase and sales agreement with hess corporation to provide an additional 550 crude oil rail cars beginning in the third quarter of 2015, of which 259 were delivered at december 31, 2015. the rail cars under this arrangement are being constructed to dot-117 standards with the exception of electronically controlled pneumatic brakes, which can be added at a later date prior to the regulation deadline, for minimal cost. ramberg truck facility : the ramberg truck facility is a crude oil truck unloading and pipeline receipt terminal that receives crude oil by pipeline or truck. the facility has a combined pipeline and truck receipt capability of 176,000 bopd, and a redelivery capability of 130,000 bopd through pipelines that connect to both the tioga rail terminal and onto third-party pipelines. gathering pipelines : hip owns three major distinct gathering systems which collectively comprise over 3,000 miles of gathering pipelines and multiple compressor stations. these systems have a current gross throughput capacity of over 200 mmcfd of gas and 50,000 bopd of liquids. mentor storage terminal: the mentor storage terminal consists of a propane storage cavern and rail and truck transloading facility located on approximately 40 acres in mentor, minnesota, with aggregate working storage capacity of approximately 328,000 boe. hip owns 100% of hess midstream partners lp, which was formed to own, operate, develop and acquire a diverse set of midstream assets to provide fee-based services to both hess corporation and third party crude oil and natural gas producers as a publicly traded master limited partnership upon the future completion of an initial public offering of limited partnership units. hess midstream partners lp filed its most recent registration statement on form s-1 in december 2015 and may complete an initial public offering of its securities in 2016. the assets to be held by hess midstream partners lp at the time of its initial public offering are expected to include a 30% economic interest in hess tgp operations lp (owner of the tioga gas plant), a 50% economic interest in hess north dakota export logistics operations lp (owner of the tioga rail terminal, 10 ramberg truck facility and crude oil rail cars), and a 100% interest in hess mentor storage holdin gs llc (owner of the mentor storage terminal). marketing and refining - discontinued operations as of december 31, 2015, our downstream activities had substantively ceased: 2015: we completed the sale of our former energy trading joint venture, hetco. 2014: we sold our retail marketing business consisting of approximately 1,350 retail gasoline stations, most of which had convenience stores, and two joint venture investments in natural gas fueled electric generating projects in newark and bayonne, new jersey. 2013: we sold our energy marketing and terminal network businesses; which marketed refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity on the east coast of the u.s., primarily to wholesale distributors, industrial and commercial users, and public utilities. we also permanently shut down the refining operations at our port reading, new jersey facility, thus completing our exit from all refining operations. our subsidiary, hovic, had a 50% interest in hovensa (a joint venture with a subsidiary of pdvsa) which owned a refinery in st. croix, u.s. virgin islands. in january 2012, hovensa shut down its refinery and continued operating solely as an oil storage terminal through the first quarter of 2015. in september 2015, hovensa filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code in the united states district court of the virgin islands - bankruptcy division. in december 2015, the government of st. croix ratified a new operating agreement with the buyer of hovensa's storage terminals, refining units, and marine infrastructure (st. croix facility) and in january 2016, the buyer completed the purchase of the assets of the st. croix facility. under the court approved liquidation plan, hovensa established a liquidating trust to distribute certain assets and sale proceeds to its creditors, established an environmental response trust to administer to hovensa's remaining environmental obligations and will conduct an orderly wind-down of its remaining activities. see item 3. legal proceedings. competition and market conditions see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of competition and market conditions. 11 other items emergency preparedness and response plans and procedures we have in place a series of business and asset-specific emergency preparedness, response and business continuity plans that detail procedures for rapid and effective emergency response and environmental mitigation activities. these plans are risk appropriate and are maintained, reviewed and updated as necessary to ensure their accuracy and suitability. where appropriate, they are also reviewed and approved by the relevant host government authorities. responder training and drills are routinely held worldwide to assess and continually improve the effectiveness of our plans. our contractors, service providers, representatives from government agencies and, where applicable, joint venture partners participate in the drills to ensure that emergency procedures are comprehensive and can be effectively implemented. to complement internal capabilities and to ensure coverage for our global operations, we maintain membership contracts with a network of local, regional and global oil spill response and emergency response organizations. at the regional and global level, these organizations include clean gulf associates (cga), marine spill response corporation (msrc), marine well containment company (mwcc), wild well control (wwc), subsea well intervention service (swis) and oil spill response limited (osrl). cga and msrc are domestic spill response organizations and mwcc provides the equipment and personnel to contain underwater well control incidents in the gulf of mexico. wwc provides firefighting, well control and engineering services globally. osrl is a global response organization and is available, when needed, to assist us anywhere in the world. in addition to owning response assets in their own right, the organization maintains business relationships that provide immediate access to additional critical response support services if required. these owned response assets include nearly 300 recovery and storage vessels and barges, more than 250 skimmers, over 600,000 feet of boom, 9 capping stacks and significant quantities of dispersants and other ancillary equipment, including aircraft. in addition to external well control and oil spill response support, we have contracts with wildlife, environmental, meteorology, incident management, medical and security resources. if we were to engage these organizations to obtain additional critical response support services, we would fund such services and seek reimbursement under our insurance coverage, as described below. in certain circumstances, we pursue and enter into mutual aid agreements with other companies and government cooperatives to receive and provide oil spill response equipment and personnel support. we maintain close associations with emergency response organizations through our representation on the executive committees of cga and msrc, as well as the board of directors of osrl. we continue to participate in a number of industry wide task forces that are studying better ways to assess the risk of and prevent onshore and offshore incidents, access and control blowouts in subsea environments, and improve containment and recovery methods. the task forces are working closely with the oil and gas industry and international government agencies to implement improvements and increase the effectiveness of oil spill prevention, preparedness, response and recovery processes. insurance coverage and indemnification we maintain insurance coverage that includes coverage for physical damage to our property, third-party liability, workers' compensation and employers' liability, general liability, sudden and accidental pollution and other coverage. this insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limitations and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. the amount of insurance covering physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding atlantic named windstorm coverage for which we are self insured, varies by asset, based on the asset's estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss. in the case of a catastrophic event, first party coverage consists of two tiers of insurance. the first $300 million of coverage is provided through an industry mutual insurance group. above this $300 million threshold, insurance is carried which ranges in value up to $2.89 billion in total, depending on the asset coverage level, as described above. additionally, we carry insurance that provides third-party coverage for general liability, and sudden and accidental pollution, up to $1.08 billion, which coverage under a standard joint operating arrangement would be reduced to our participating interest. our insurance policies renew at various dates each year. future insurance coverage could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions, or additional exclusions or limitations. in addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that are deemed economically acceptable. generally, our drilling contracts (and most of our other offshore services contracts) provide for a mutual hold harmless indemnity structure whereby each party to the contract (the corporation and contractor) indemnifies the other party for injuries or damages to their personnel and property (and, often, those of its contractors/subcontractors) regardless of fault. 12 variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gro ss negligence and/or willful misconduct of a party. third party claims, on the other hand, are generally allocated on a fault basis. we are customarily responsible for, and indemnify the contractor against, all claims including those from third parties, to the extent attributable to pollution or contamination by substances originating from our reservoirs or other property (regardless of cause, including gross negligence and willful misconduct) and the contractor is responsible for and indemnifies us for all claims attributable to pollution emanating from the contractor's property. additionally, we are generally liable for all of our own losses and most third party claims associated with catastrophic losses such as damage to reservoirs, blowouts, cratering and loss of hole, regardless of cause, although exceptions for losses attributable to gross negligence and/or willful misconduct do exist. lastly, some offshore services contracts include overall limitations of the contractor's liability equal to the value of the contract or a fixed amount. under a standard joint operating agreement (joa), each party is liable for all claims arising under the joa, to the extent of its participating interest (operator or non-operator). variations include indemnity exclusions when the claim is based upon the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of the operator, in which case the operator is solely liable. the parties to the joa may continue to be jointly and severally liable for claims made by third-parties in some jurisdictions. further, under some production sharing contracts between a governmental entity and commercial parties, liability of the commercial parties to the government entity is joint and several. environmental compliance with various existing environmental and pollution control regulations imposed by federal, state, local and foreign governments is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations but increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general. we spent approximately $13 million in 2015 for environmental remediation. the level of other expenditures to comply with federal, state, local and foreign country environmental regulations is difficult to quantify as such costs are captured as mostly indistinguishable components of our capital expenditures and operating expenses. for further discussion of environmental matters see environment, health and safety in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . number of employees at december 31, 2015, we had 2,770 employees. website access to our reports we make available free of charge through our website at www.hess.com, our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission. the information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this report. our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the audit committee, compensation and management development committee, and corporate governance and nominating committee of the board of directors are available on our website and are also available free of charge upon request to investor relations at our principal executive office. we also file with the new york stock exchange (nyse) an annual certification that our chief executive officer is unaware of any violation of the nyse's corporate governance standards. 13 item 1a. risk factors our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant risks, including the risk factors described below. these risk factors could negatively affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, and as a result, holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. it is possible that additional risks relating to our securities may be described in a prospectus supplement if we issue securities in the future. our business and operating results are highly dependent on the market prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, which can be very volatile. our estimated proved reserves, revenue, operating cash flows, operating margins, liquidity, financial condition and future earnings are highly dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, which are volatile and influenced by numerous factors beyond our control. the major foreign oil producing countries, including members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries (opec), may exert considerable influence over the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products. their ability or inability to agree on a common policy on rates of production and other matters may have a significant impact on the oil markets. other factors include, but are not limited to: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, political conditions and events (including instability, changes in governments, or armed conflict) around the world and in particular in crude oil or natural gas producing regions, the cost of exploring for, developing and producing crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, the price and availability of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, the effect of energy conservation and environmental protection efforts and overall economic conditions globally. at december 31, 2015, spot prices for brent crude oil and west texas intermediate crude oil closed at $36.61 per barrel and $37.13 per barrel, respectively. average prices for 2015 were $53.64 per barrel for brent and $48.80 per barrel for wti. if crude oil prices in 2016 remain at levels consistent with or below year-end 2015, there will be a significant decrease in 2016 revenues and operating results from 2015 levels. we cannot predict how long these lower price levels will continue to prevail. the sentiment of commodities trading markets as well as other supply and demand factors may also influence the selling prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas. to the extent that we engage in hedging activities to mitigate commodity price volatility, we may not realize the benefit of price increases above the hedged price. in order to manage the potential volatility of cash flows and credit requirements, we maintain significant bank credit facilities. an inability to access, renew or replace such credit facilities or access other sources of funding as they mature would negatively impact our liquidity. in addition, we are exposed to risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values, and may engage in hedging activities to mitigate related volatility. if we fail to successfully increase our reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will be adversely impacted. we own or have access to a finite amount of oil and gas reserves which will be depleted over time. replacement of oil and gas production and reserves, including proved undeveloped reserves, is subject to successful exploration drilling, development activities, and enhanced recovery programs. therefore, future oil and gas production is dependent on technical success in finding and developing additional hydrocarbon reserves. exploration activity involves the interpretation of seismic and other geological and geophysical data, which does not always successfully predict the presence of commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. drilling risks include unexpected adverse conditions, irregularities in pressure or formations, equipment failure, blowouts and weather interruptions. future developments may be affected by unforeseen reservoir conditions which negatively affect recovery factors or flow rates. reserve replacement can also be achieved through acquisition. similar risks, however, may be encountered in the production of oil and gas on properties acquired from others. in addition to the technical risks to reserve replacement, replacing reserves and developing future production is also influenced by the price of crude oil and natural gas and costs of drilling and development activities. persistent lower crude oil and natural gas prices, such as those currently prevailing, may have the effect of reducing capital available for exploration and development activity and may render certain development projects uneconomic or delay their completion and may result in negative revisions to existing reserves while increasing drilling and development costs could negatively affect expected economic returns. there are inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and discounted future net cash flows, and actual quantities may be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues from those reserves. actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities of our proved reserves and the related future net revenues. in addition, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward changes based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, production sharing contracts, which may decrease reserves as crude oil and natural gas prices increase, and other factors. crude oil prices declined significantly in 2015 resulting in a significant reduction to our proved reserves as of december 31, 2015. if crude oil prices remain at current levels or decline further, it could have a material adverse effect on our estimated proved reserves and the 14 value of our business. see crude oil and natural gas reserves in critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we do not always control decisions made under joint operating agreements and the parties under such agreements may fail to meet their obligations. we conduct many of our e&amp;p operations through joint operating agreements with other parties under which we may not control decisions, either because we do not have a controlling interest or are not operator under the agreement. there is risk that these parties may at any time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and therefore decisions may be made which are not what we believe is in our best interest. moreover, parties to these agreements may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. in either case, the value of our investment may be adversely affected. we are subject to changing laws and regulations and other governmental actions that can significantly and adversely affect our business. federal, state, local, territorial and foreign laws and regulations relating to tax increases and retroactive tax claims, disallowance of tax credits and deductions, expropriation or nationalization of property, mandatory government participation, cancellation or amendment of contract rights, imposition of capital controls or blocking of funds, changes in import and export regulations, limitations on access to exploration and development opportunities, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, as well as other political developments may affect our operations. we transport some of our crude oil production, particularly from the bakken shale oil play, by rail. recent rail accidents have raised public awareness of rail safety and resulted in heightened regulatory scrutiny. in the wake of these accidents, several u.s. government agencies have issued safety advisories or emergency orders requiring rail carriers to take additional precautionary measures when shipping crude oil by rail. in 2015, the department of transportation issued new standards for tank car design which could require hip to retrofit or upgrade its existing fleet of tank cars. the requirements of these new regulatory actions, as well as other possible regulations or voluntary measures by the rail industry aimed at increasing rail safety, may lead to a significant increase in the costs of transporting crude oil and other hydrocarbons by rail and otherwise adversely affect our operations. we have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas involves substantial costs, which may not be fully funded from operations. for example, in 2015, we had a net loss attributable to hess corporation of $3,056 million, and if commodity prices remain low through 2016, we are forecasting a net loss for 2016. two of the three major credit rating agencies that rate our debt have assigned an investment grade rating. in january 2016, fitch ratings (fitch) affirmed our bbb credit rating but revised the rating outlook to negative. in february 2016, standard and poor's ratings services (s&amp;p) lowered our investment grade credit rating one notch to bbb- with stable outlook and moody's investors service (moody's) lowered our credit rating to ba1 with stable outlook, which is below investment grade. although, currently we do not have any borrowings under our long-term credit facility, further ratings downgrades, continued weakness in the oil and gas industry or negative outcomes within commodity and financial markets could adversely impact our access to capital markets by increasing the costs of financing, or impacting our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, or at all. any inability to access capital markets could adversely impact our financial adaptability and our ability to execute our strategy and may also expose us to heightened exposure to credit risk. political instability in areas where we operate can adversely affect our business. some of the international areas in which we operate, and the partners with whom we operate, are politically less stable than other areas and partners and may be subject to civil unrest, conflict, insurgency, geographic territorial border disputes, corruption, security risks and labor unrest. political and civil unrest in north africa and the middle east has affected and may affect our operations in these areas as well as oil and gas markets generally. the threat of terrorism around the world also poses additional risks to the operations of the oil and gas industry. our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks and environmental laws and regulations that can result in significant costs and liabilities. our oil and gas operations, like those of the industry, are subject to environmental risks such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose us to substantial liability for pollution or other environmental damage. our operations are also subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. non compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial clean-ups and natural resource damages or other liabilities. in addition, increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general. similarly, we have material legal obligations to dismantle, remove and abandon production facilities and wells that will occur many years in the future, in most cases. these estimates may be impacted by future changes in regulations and other uncertainties. concerns have been raised in certain jurisdictions where we have operations concerning the safety and environmental impact of the drilling and development of shale oil and gas resources, particularly hydraulic fracturing, water usage, flaring of associated natural gas and air emissions. while we believe that these operations can be conducted safely and with minimal impact on the environment, regulatory bodies are responding to these concerns and may impose moratoriums and new 15 regulations on such drilling operations that would likely have the effect of prohibiting or delaying such operations and increasing their cost. climate change initiatives may result in significant operational changes and expenditures, reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our business. we recognize that climate change is a global environmental concern. continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional or local legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. these agreements and measures may require significant equipment modifications, operational changes, taxes, or purchase of emission credits to reduce emission of greenhouse gases from our operations, which may result in substantial capital expenditures and compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs. in addition, our production is used to produce petroleum fuels, which through normal customer use may result in the emission of greenhouse gases. regulatory initiatives to reduce the use of these fuels may reduce demand for crude oil and other hydrocarbons and have an adverse effect on our sales volumes, revenues and margins. the imposition and enforcement of stringent greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets could severely and adversely impact the oil and gas industry and significantly reduce the value of our business. our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have. the petroleum industry is highly competitive and very capital intensive. we encounter competition from numerous companies in each of our activities, including acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas. many competitors, including national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources. we are also in competition with producers of other forms of energy. increased competition for worldwide oil and gas assets could significantly increase the cost of acquiring oil and gas assets. in addition, competition for drilling services, technical expertise and equipment may affect the availability of technical personnel and drilling rigs, resulting in increased capital and operating costs. catastrophic events, whether naturally occurring or man made, may materially affect our operations and financial conditions. our oil and gas operations are subject to unforeseen occurrences which have affected us from time to time and which may damage or destroy assets, interrupt operations and have other significant adverse effects. examples of catastrophic risks include hurricanes, fires, explosions, blowouts, such as the third-party accident at the macondo prospect, pipeline interruptions and ruptures, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes or cyber attacks. although we maintain insurance coverage against property and casualty losses, there can be no assurance that such insurance will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. moreover, some forms of insurance may be unavailable in the future or be available only on terms that are deemed economically unacceptable. significant time delays between the estimated and actual occurrence of critical events associated with development projects may result in material negative economic consequences. we are involved in several large development projects and the completion of those projects may be delayed beyond what was originally anticipated. such examples include, but are not limited to, delays in receiving necessary approvals from project members or regulatory agencies, timely access to necessary equipment, availability of necessary personnel and unfavorable weather conditions. this may lead to delays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events. these delays could impact our future results of operations and cash flows. departures of key members from our senior management team, and/or difficulty in recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of experienced technical personnel, could negatively impact our ability to deliver on our strategic goals. the derivation and monitoring of successful strategies and related policies may be negatively impacted by the departure of key members of senior management. moreover, an inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of experienced technical and professional personnel in the necessary locations may prohibit us from executing our strategy in full or, in part, with a commensurate impact on shareholder value. we are dependent on oilfield service companies for items including drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor. an inability or significant delay in securing these services, or a high cost thereof, may result in material negative economic consequences. the availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor will fluctuate over time given the cyclical nature of the e&amp;p industry. as a result, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining required services or could face an increase in cost. these consequences may impact our ability to run our operations and to deliver projects on time with the potential for material negative economic consequences. we manage commodity price risk through our risk management function but such activities may impede our ability to benefit from commodity price increases and can expose us to similar potential counterparty credit risk as impacts amounts due from the sale of hydrocarbons. we may enter into commodity price hedging arrangements to protect us from commodity price declines. these arrangements may, depending on the instruments used and the level of increases involved, limit any potential upside from commodity price increases. in addition, as with accounts receivable we may be exposed to potential economic loss should a counterparty be unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under the terms of a hedging agreement. cyber attacks targeting computer, telecommunications systems, and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry 16 may materiall y impact our business and operations. computers and telecommunication systems are used to conduct our exploration, development and production activities and have become an integral part of our business. we use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicate within our company and with outside business partners. cyber attacks could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems and result in disruptions to our business operations or the loss of our data and propr ietary information. in addition, computers control oil and gas production, processing equipment, and distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market. a cyber attack against these operating systems, or the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets, and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. as a result, a cyber-attack could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations. we routinely experience attempts by external parties to penetrate and attack our networks and systems. although such attempts to date have not resulted in any material breaches, disruptions, or loss of business critical information, our systems and procedures for protecting against such attacks and mitigating such risks may prove to be insufficient in the future and such attacks could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. in addition, as technologies evolve and these attacks become more sophisticated, we may incur significant costs to upgrade or enhance our security measures to protect against such attacks. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as discussed in note 22 , financial risk management activities , in the notes to the consolidated financial statements , in the normal course of our business, we are exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the prices of crude oil and natural gas as well as changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. in the disclosures that follow, financial risk management activities refer to the mitigation of these risks through hedging activities. we were exposed to commodity price risks primarily related to crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity, as well as foreign currency values, from our 50% voting interest in a consolidated energy trading joint venture, hetco, which was sold in the first quarter of 2015. controls: we maintain a control environment under the direction of our chief risk officer. hedging strategies are reviewed annually by the audit committee of the board of directors. controls include volumetric and term limits. our treasury department is responsible for administering and monitoring foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs using similar controls and processes, where applicable. instruments: we primarily use forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, and options. these contracts are generally widely traded instruments with standardized terms. the following describes these instruments and how we use them: swaps: we use financially settled swap contracts with third-parties as part of our financial risk management activities. cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices or interest rates and are typically settled over the life of the contract. forward foreign exchange contracts: we enter into forward contracts, primarily for the british pound and danish krone which commit us to buy or sell a fixed amount of these currencies at a predetermined exchange rate on a future date. exchange traded contracts: we use exchange traded contracts, including futures, on a number of different underlying energy commodities. these contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and may be subject to exchange position limits. options: options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange traded and third-party contracts and have various exercise periods. as a seller of options, we receive a premium at the outset and bear the risk of unfavorable changes in the price of the commodity underlying the option. as a purchaser of options, we pay a premium at the outset and have the right to participate in the favorable price movements in the underlying commodities. financial risk management activities financial risk management activities include transactions designed to reduce risk in the selling prices of crude oil or natural gas produced by us or to reduce exposure to foreign currency or interest rate movements. generally, futures, swaps or option strategies may be used to reduce risk in the selling price of a portion of our crude oil or natural gas production. forward contracts may also be used to purchase certain currencies in which we do business with the intent of reducing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate swaps may also be used, generally to convert fixed rate interest payments to floating. we have outstanding foreign exchange contracts used to reduce our exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates for various currencies. the change in fair value of foreign exchange contracts from a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate is estimated to be a loss of approximately $95 million at december 31, 2015. 45 at december 31, 2015, our outstanding long term debt of $6,630 million, including current maturities, had a fair value of $6,515 million. a 15% increase or decrease in the rate of interes t would decrease or increase the fair value of debt by approximately $410 million or $480 million, respectively. trading activities in february 2015, we sold our interest in our energy trading joint venture, hetco, which was subsequently renamed hartree partners, lp (hartree). pursuant to the terms of the sale, hartree was permitted to utilize our guarantees issued in favor of hartree's existing counterparties until november 12, 2015, provided that new trades were for a period of one year or less, complied with certain credit requirements, and net exposures remained within value at risk limits previously applied by us. the guarantees remain in effect until the qualifying trades outstanding at november 12, 2015 mature. we have the right to seek reimbursement from hartree and a separate hartree credit support facility upon any counterparty draw on the applicable guarantee from us. no draws on the guaranteed trades have occurred through december 31, 2015. a liability of $10 million associated with the guarantee is included in other accrued liabilities at december 31, 2015. at december 31, 2014, hetco assets totaling $1,035 million, consisting of accounts receivable and other long-lived assets, were reported in other current assets, and liabilities totaling $797 million, which consisted primarily of accounts payable, were reported in accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet . 46 ite m 8. financial statements and supplementary data hess corporation and consolidated subsidiaries index to financial statements and schedule page number management's report on internal control over financial reporting 48 reports of independent registered public accounting firm 49 consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2015, and 2014 51 statement of consolidated income for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2015 52 statement of consolidated comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2015 53 statement of consolidated cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2015 54 statement of consolidated equity for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2015 55 notes to consolidated financial statements 56 supplementary oil and gas data 83 quarterly financial data 92 schedule ii* valuation and qualifying accounts 98 * schedules other than schedule ii have been omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required or because the required information is presented in the financial statements or the notes thereto. 47 management's report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in exchange act rules 13a 15(f). under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes oxley act, based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (2013 framework). based on our evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of december 31, 2015. the corporation's independent registered public accounting firm, ernst &amp; young llp, has audited the effectiveness of the corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015, as stated in their report, which is included herein. by /s/ john p. rielly by /s/ john b. hess john p. rielly senior vice president and chief financial officer john b. hess chief executive officer february 25, 2016 48 r eport of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders hess corporation we have audited hess corporation and consolidated subsidiaries' (the corporation ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (2013 framework) (the coso criteria). the corporation's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the corporation's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, hess corporation and consolidated subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015, based on the coso criteria. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheet of hess corporation and consolidated subsidiaries as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related statements of consolidated income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2015 of hess corporation and consolidated subsidiaries, and our report dated february 25, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ ernst &amp; young llp new york, new york february 25, 2016 49 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders hess corporation we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of hess corporation and consolidated subsidiaries (the corporation ) as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related statements of consolidated income, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2015. our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index atrisk factors within this document. 1 glossary throughout this report, the following company or industry specific terms and abbreviations are used: appraisal well an exploration well drilled to confirm the results of a discovery well, or a well used to determine the boundaries of a productive formation. bbl one stock tank barrel, which is 42 united states gallons liquid volume. barrel of oil equivalent or boe this reflects natural gas reserves converted on the basis of relative energy content of six mcf equals one barrel of oil equivalent (one mcf represents one thousand cubic feet). barrel of oil equivalence does not necessarily result in price equivalence, as the equivalent price of natural gas on a barrel of oil equivalent basis has been substantially lower than the corresponding price for crude oil over the recent past. see the average selling prices in the table on page 9. boepd barrels of oil equivalent per day. bopd barrels of oil per day. carried interest an interest in an oil and gas property where the carrying party agrees to pay for all or part of development and operating costs of another party. the carrying party may then recover a specified amount of costs from the other party's share of any hydrocarbon revenues. condensate a mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in the gaseous phase at original reservoir temperature and pressure, but that, when produced, is in the liquid phase at surface pressure and temperature. development well a well drilled within the proved area of an oil and/or natural gas reservoir with the intent of producing oil and/or natural gas from that area of the reservoir. dry hole or dry well exploratory or development well that does not produce oil or gas in commercial quantities. exploratory well a well drilled to find oil or natural gas in an unproved area or find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive by another reservoir. field an area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic condition. fractionation fractionation is the process by which the mixture of ngls that results from natural gas processing is separated into the ngl components, such as ethane, propane, butane, isobutane, and natural gasoline, prior to their sale to various petrochemical and industrial end users. fractionation is accomplished by controlling the temperature of the stream of mixed liquids in order to take advantage of the difference in boiling points of separate products. gross acreage acreage in which a working interest is held by the corporation. gross well a well in which a working interest is held by the corporation. mcf one thousand cubic feet of natural gas. mmcfd one thousand mcf of natural gas per day. net acreage or net wells the sum of the fractional working interests owned by us in gross acres or gross wells. ngls or natural gas liquids naturally occurring substances found in natural gas, including ethane, butane, isobutane, propane and natural gasoline that can be collectively removed from produced natural gas, separated into these substances and sold. natural gas liquids do not sell at prices equivalent to crude oil. see the average selling prices in the table on page 9. non-operated projects in which the corporation has a working interest but does not perform the role of operator. opec organization of petroleum exporting countries. operator the entity responsible for conducting exploration, development and/or production operations for an oil or gas project. participating interest reflects the proportion of exploration and production costs each party will bear or the proportion of production each party will receive, as set out in an operating agreement. production entitlement the share of gross production the corporation is entitled to receive under the terms of a production sharing contract. 2 production sharing contract an agreement between a host government and the owners (or co-owners) of a well or field regarding the percentage of production each party will receive after the parties have recovered a specified amount of capital and operational expenses. productive well a well that is capable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify commercial exploitation. proved properties properties with proved reserves. proved reserves in accordance with securities and exchange commission regulations and practices recognized in the publication of the society of petroleum engineers entitled, standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserves information, those quantities of crude oil and condensate, ngls and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. the project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. proved developed reserves proved reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or for which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well. proved undeveloped reserves proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. unproved properties properties with no proved reserves. working interest an interest in an oil and gas property that provides the owner of the interest the right to drill for and produce oil and gas on the relevant acreage and requires the owner to pay a share of the costs of drilling and production operations. 3 part i items 1 and 2. business and properties hess corporation, incorporated in the state of delaware in 1920, is a global exploration and production (e&amp;p) company engaged in exploration, development, production, transportation, purchase and sale of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas with production operations located primarily in the united states (u.s.), denmark, equatorial guinea, the malaysia/thailand joint development area (jda), malaysia, and norway. the bakken midstream operating segment, which was established in the second quarter of 2015, provides fee-based services, including gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating natural gas liquids, or ngls; gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and ngls; and storing and terminaling propane, primarily in the bakken and three forks shale plays in the williston basin area of north dakota. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further details. exploration and production proved reserves proved reserves are calculated using the average price during the twelve-month period ending december 31 determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of each month within the year, unless prices are defined by contractual agreements, excluding escalations based on future conditions. crude oil prices used in the determination of proved reserves at december 31, 2016 were $42.68 per barrel for wti (2015: $50.13) and $44.45 per barrel for brent (2015: $55.10). our total proved developed and undeveloped reserves at december 31 were as follows: crude oil &amp; condensate natural gas liquids natural gas total barrels of oil equivalent (boe) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 (millions of bbls) (millions of bbls) (millions of mcf) (millions of bbls) developed united states 245 253 59 51 404 368 371 365 europe (a) 116 114 3 12 125 123 140 147 africa 138 148 132 137 160 171 asia 5 5 739 643 128 112 504 520 62 63 1,400 1,271 799 795 undeveloped united states 110 93 27 23 186 137 168 139 europe (a) 94 89 5 15 95 111 115 122 africa 24 24 11 11 26 26 asia 5 24 1 4 228 206 32 38 297 283 310 291 total united states 355 346 86 74 590 505 539 504 europe (a) 210 203 8 27 220 234 255 269 africa 162 172 143 148 186 197 asia 5 5 744 667 129 116 732 726 94 101 1,697 1,554 1,109 1,086 (a) proved reserves in norway, which represented 18% of our total proved reserves at december 31, 2016 (2015: 21%), were as follows: crude oil &amp; condensate natural gas liquids natural gas total barrels of oil equivalent (boe) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 (millions of bbls) (millions of bbls) (millions of mcf) (millions of bbls) developed 75 86 3 12 72 84 90 112 undeveloped 90 85 5 15 88 107 110 118 total 165 171 8 27 160 191 200 230 proved undeveloped reserves were 28% of our total proved reserves at december 31, 2016 on a boe basis (2015: 27%). proved reserves held under production sharing contracts totaled 4% of our crude oil reserves and 45% of our natural gas reserves at december 31, 2016 (2015: 5% and 44%, respectively). 4 for additional information regarding our proved oil and gas reserves, see the supplementary oil and gas data to the consolidated financial statements presented on pages 84 through 94 . production worldwide crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas production was as follows: 2016 2015 2014 crude oil (thousands of barrels) united states bakken 24,881 29,579 23,997 other onshore 3,209 3,814 3,587 total onshore 28,090 33,393 27,584 offshore 16,649 20,391 18,702 total united states 44,739 53,784 46,286 europe norway 8,387 9,985 9,275 denmark 3,636 3,981 3,994 12,023 13,966 13,269 africa equatorial guinea 11,898 15,881 15,869 libya 387 20 1,410 algeria 2,589 2,364 12,285 18,490 19,643 asia jda and other 768 809 1,030 768 809 1,030 total 69,815 87,049 80,228 2016 2015 2014 (thousands of barrels) natural gas liquids united states bakken 9,701 7,438 3,759 other onshore 4,205 4,215 2,376 total onshore 13,906 11,653 6,135 offshore 1,724 2,258 2,283 total united states 15,630 13,911 8,418 europe - norway 408 499 501 asia 10 total 16,038 14,410 8,929 5 2016 2015 2014 natural gas (thousands of mcf) united states bakken 22,312 23,214 14,612 other onshore 48,597 39,929 17,091 total onshore 70,909 63,143 31,703 offshore 23,603 31,751 28,426 total united states 94,512 94,894 60,129 europe norway 8,541 9,973 8,951 denmark 7,128 5,588 4,184 15,669 15,561 13,135 asia and other jda 68,031 83,900 80,941 malaysia (a) 13,151 18,994 21,916 other 11,031 81,182 102,894 113,888 total 191,363 213,349 187,152 total barrels of oil equivalent (in millions) 118 137 120 (a) includes 3,624 thousand mcf of production for 2016 (2015: 5,321 thousand mcf; 2014: 7,435 thousand mcf) from block pm301 which is unitized into the jda. e&amp;p operations a description of our significant e&amp;p operations is as follows: united states our production in the u.s. was from onshore properties, principally in the bakken oil shale play in the williston basin of north dakota, the utica basin of ohio and the permian basin of texas and from offshore properties in the gulf of mexico. onshore: bakken: at december 31, 2016, we held 577,000 net acres in the bakken with varying working interest percentages. during 2016, we operated an average of 3.3 rigs, drilled 71 wells, completed 92 wells, and brought on production 100 wells, bringing the total operated production wells to 1,272. drilling and completion costs per operated well averaged $4.8 million in 2016, down 17% from 2015. in 2016, we also increased our standard well design to a 50-stage completion from the previous 35-stage completion. the improved efficiency of our drilling operations can largely be attributed to application of our lean manufacturing capabilities. during 2017, we plan to increase our rig count to six rigs from two rigs, for an average of 3.5 rigs, to drill approximately 80 wells and to bring approximately 75 wells on production. net production for full year 2017 is forecast to be in the range of 95,000 boepd to 105,000 boepd. with the building rig count we expect our bakken production in the fourth quarter of 2017 to average between 105,000 boepd and 110,000 boepd, which would represent an increase of approximately 15% from the first quarter to the fourth quarter. utica: we own a 50% working interest in approximately 45,000 net acres in the wet gas area of the utica basin of ohio. during 2016, a total of 6 wells were drilled, 6 wells were completed and 14 wells were brought on production. in march 2016, we and our joint venture partner released the remaining hess operated rig. at december 31, 2016, we had 5 wells drilled but not completed on a single well pad. we do not plan to drill any wells in 2017. permian: we operate and hold a 34% interest in the seminole san andres unit in the permian basin. offshore: at december 31, 2016, we held interests in 76 blocks in the deepwater gulf of mexico. our production offshore in the gulf of mexico was principally from the baldpate (hess 50%), conger (hess 38%), hack wilson (hess 25%), llano (hess 50%), penn state (hess 50%), shenzi (hess 28%) and tubular bells (hess 57%) fields. in addition, we are operator of the stampede development project (hess 25%). at december 31, 2016, we held approximately 190,000 net undeveloped acres, of which leases covering approximately 85,000 acres are due to expire in the next three years. 6 a des cription of our significant operations in the gulf of mexico is as follows: conger: at this hess operated field, we drilled and brought online an additional production well during the year. in addition, one well was shut-in for an extended period in 2016 in order to replace a subsurface valve. penn state: at this hess operated field, we intend to drill one production well in 2017. shenzi: at this bhp billiton petroleum operated field, drilling continued during 2016 with the completion of a water injection well. in 2017, the operator plans to defer further drilling activity. tubular bells : at this hess operated field, we brought online a fifth production well and one water injector well, completing the initial drilling campaign. three wells were shut-in for an extended period in 2016 due to subsurface valve failures. these valves have since been replaced and we are pursuing our options to recover damages for these valve failures. stampede: at this hess operated project in the green canyon area of the gulf of mexico, the co-owners sanctioned the field development and committed to two deepwater drilling rigs in 2014. in 2016, the topsides deck was installed on the hull, and fabrication and pre-commissioning of the topsides continues according to plan. we also completed installation of subsea equipment at both drill centers in the field, drilled one development well, and commenced drilling on one water injector well. f irst production from the field is targeted for 2018, and is expected to ramp up to a net rate of approximately 15,000 boepd. europe norway: in 2016, aker bp assumed operatorship from bp of the offshore valhall f ield (hess 64%). during 2016, well abandonment activities were conducted as part of a multi-year program that will continue into 2017. in 2017, the operator plans to drill two production wells from the existing platform rig, of which one well is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter . in 2017, net production is expected to average between 25,000 boepd to 30,000 boepd. denmark: at the hess operated offshore south arne field (hess 62%), we completed drilling of a previously sanctioned eleven well multi-year program. in addition, the danish government awarded a 20-year extension to the south arne field license, extending expiry to 2047 . africa equatorial guinea: at the hess operated offshore block g (hess 85% paying interest, national oil company of equatorial guinea 5% carried interest), we have production from the okume and ceiba fields. in 2016, there were no drilling operations and there are no plans for drilling in 2017. ghana: at the hess operated offshore deepwater tano/cape three points license (hess 50% license interest), we have drilled seven successful exploration wells on the block since 2011. in may 2013, we submitted appraisal plans for each of the seven discoveries, which comprise both oil and natural gas, to the ghanaian government for approval. five appraisal plans have been approved. in 2014, we drilled three successful appraisal wells. well results continue to be evaluated and development planning is progressing. the government of c te d'ivoire has challenged the maritime border between it and the country of ghana, which includes a portion of our deepwater tano/cape three points license. we are unable to proceed with development of this license until there is a resolution of this matter, which may also impact our ability to develop the license. the international tribunal for law of the sea is expected to render a final ruling on the maritime border dispute in 2017. under terms of our license and subject to resolution of the border dispute, we have declared commerciality for four discoveries, including the pecan field in march 2016, which would be the primary development hub for the block. we are continuing to work with the government on how best to progress work on the block given the maritime border dispute. see capitalized exploratory well costs in note 4, property, plant and equipment in the notes to consolidated financial statements for details of wells capitalized at december 31, 2016. libya: at the onshore waha concession in libya, which include the defa, faregh, gialo, north gialo and belhedan fields (hess 8%), the operator has shut in production for extended periods over the last three years due to force majeure caused by civil unrest. the national oil company of libya lifted force majeure in september 2016 and production recommenced in october 2016. net production averaged 1,000 bopd in 2016, zero in 2015, and 4,000 bopd in 2014. we have after-tax net book value in our libyan operations of approximately $135 million and total proved reserves of 159 million boe at december 31, 2016. 7 asia an d other malaysia/thailand joint development area (jda) : at the carigali hess operated offshore block a-18 in the gulf of thailand ( hess 50% ), the operator continued development drilling and completed installation and commissioning of a major booster compression project in 2016. no drilling is planned for 2017 as contracted volumes are expected to be met as a result of the booster compression project. malaysia: our production in malaysia comes from our interest in block pm301 (hess 50%), which is adjacent to and is unitized with block a 18 of the jda and our 50% interest in blocks pm302, pm325 and pm326b located in the north malay basin (nmb), offshore peninsular malaysia, where we operate a multi phase natural gas development project. in 2016, we completed the installation of three remote wellhead platforms and the jacket of the central processing platform. we also achieved mechanical completion of the central processing platform topsides and transport to the field via a heavy lift vessel is planned for the first quarter of 2017. we expect net production from nmb to increase from 26 million cubic feet per day in 2016 to approximately 165 million cubic feet per day following the completion of full field development in the third quarter of 2017. australia: at the wa 390 p and wa-474-p blocks (hess 100%) in the carnarvon basin, offshore western australia (also known as equus) covering approximately 658,000 acres, we have drilled 13 natural gas discoveries and 6 appraisal wells . in the fourth quarter of 2016, we terminated a joint front-end engineering study with a third party natural gas liquefaction joint venture and notified the government of australia of our intent to defer further development of the project. as a result, we recognized an after-tax charge of $693 million to expense capitalized exploratory well costs and other project related costs. guyana: at the esso exploration and production guyana limited operated offshore stabroek block (hess 30% participating interest), the operator announced a significant oil discovery at the liza-1 well in 2015. during 2016, the operator completed a 17,000 square kilometer 3d seismic acquisition on the stabroek block and drilled the liza-2 and liza-3 wells, both of which encountered hydrocarbons. pre-development planning and appraisal activities are underway and we expect to be in a position to sanction the first phase of the liza development in mid-2017 with first production expected in 2020 . at the skipjack prospect 25 miles northwest of the liza discovery, the operator completed the drilling of an exploration well, which was unsuccessful and expensed. in november 2016, the operator commenced drilling of the payara-1 exploration well, located approximately 10 miles northwest of the liza discovery, and in january 2017 announced results confirming the well as a second oil discovery on the block. in 2017, the operator plans to drill a well at the snoek exploration prospect, a liza-4 appraisal well, and a payara-2 appraisal well. in addition, the operator will evaluate additional exploration opportunities on the broader stabroek block. suriname : in 2016 we acquired a 33% non-operated participating interest in t he kosmos energy ltd. operated block 42 contract area, offshore suriname, which is located in the guyana-suriname basin. the operator completed a 6,500 square kilometer 3d seismic shoot in january 2017. canada: at the four bp operated exploration licenses offshore nova scotia (hess 50% participating interest), the operator expects to drill its first exploration well in 2018. sales commitments we have certain long-term contracts with fixed minimum sales volume commitments for natural gas and natural gas liquids production. at the jda in the gulf of thailand, we have annual minimum net sales commitments of approximately 70 billion cubic feet of natural gas per year through 2025 and approximately 40 billion cubic feet per year in 2026 and 2027. at the north malay basin development project offshore malaysia, we have annual net sales commitments of approximately 50 billion cubic feet per year from completion of full field development which is expected in the third quarter of 2017 through 2024. the corporation's estimated total volume of production subject to sales commitments over the remaining term of the contracts is approximately 1.1 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. we also have natural gas liquids minimum delivery commitments, primarily in the bakken through 2023, of approximately 10 million barrels per year, or approximately 70 million barrels over the remaining life of the contracts. we have not experienced any significant constraints in satisfying the committed quantities required by our sales commitments, and we anticipate being able to meet future requirements from available proved and probable reserves and projected third-party supply. 8 selling prices and production costs the following table presents our average selling prices and average production costs: 2016 2015 2014 average selling prices (a) crude oil - per barrel (including hedging) united states onshore $ 36.92 $ 42.67 $ 81.89 offshore 37.47 46.21 95.05 total united states 37.13 44.01 87.21 europe (b) 43.33 55.10 104.21 africa 41.88 53.89 97.31 asia 42.98 52.74 89.71 worldwide 39.20 47.85 92.59 crude oil - per barrel (excluding hedging) united states onshore $ 36.92 $ 41.22 $ 81.89 offshore 37.47 46.21 92.22 total united states 37.13 43.11 86.06 europe (b) 43.33 52.37 99.20 africa 41.88 51.57 93.70 asia 42.98 52.74 89.71 worldwide 39.20 46.37 90.20 natural gas liquids - per barrel united states onshore $ 9.18 $ 9.18 $ 28.92 offshore 13.96 14.40 30.40 total united states 9.71 10.02 29.32 europe (b) 19.48 24.59 52.66 worldwide 9.95 10.52 30.59 natural gas - per mcf united states onshore $ 1.48 $ 1.64 $ 3.18 offshore 1.99 2.03 3.79 total united states 1.61 1.77 3.47 europe (b) 3.97 6.72 10.00 asia 5.31 5.97 6.94 worldwide 3.37 4.16 6.04 average production (lifting) costs per barrel of oil equivalent produced (c) united states onshore $ 18.75 $ 18.68 $ 20.90 offshore 18.88 7.03 5.06 total united states 18.79 14.80 14.60 europe (b) 21.28 23.61 28.93 africa 20.53 23.12 22.41 asia and other 11.91 8.34 9.11 worldwide 18.45 16.17 16.86 (a) includes inter company transfers valued at approximate market prices and, primarily onshore united states, is adjusted for certain processing and distribution fees. (b) the average selling prices in norway for 2016 were $43.32 per barrel for crude oil (including hedging), $43.32 per barrel for crude oil (excluding hedging), $19.48 per barrel for natural gas liquids and $5.22 per mcf for natural gas (2015: $54.89, $52.15, $24.59 and $8.58, respectively; 2014: $105.35, $100.34, $52.13 and $12.22, respectively). the average production (lifting) costs in norway were $24.70 per barrel of oil equivalent in 2016 (2015: $25.81; 2014: $33.52). (c) production (lifting) costs consist of amounts incurred to operate and maintain our producing oil and gas wells, related equipment and facilities and transportation costs, including bakken midstream tariff expense. lifting costs do not include costs of finding and developing proved oil and gas reserves, production and severance taxes, or the costs of related general and administrative expenses, interest expense and income taxes. 9 gross and net undeveloped acreage at december 31, 2016 gross and net undeveloped acreage amounted to: undeveloped acreage (a) gross net (in thousands) united states 481 369 europe 169 91 africa 3,831 521 asia and other 13,483 5,758 total (b) 17,964 6,739 (a) includes acreage held under production sharing contracts. (b) at december 31, 2016, licenses covering approximately 5% of our net undeveloped acreage held are scheduled to expire during the next three years pending the results of exploration activities. gross and net developed acreage, and productive wells at december 31, 2016 gross and net developed acreage and productive wells amounted to: developed acreage applicable to productive wells (a) productive wells oil gas gross net gross net gross net (in thousands) united states 1,293 827 2,822 1,365 177 84 europe (b) 102 59 73 46 africa 9,629 833 767 94 asia and other 356 178 83 44 total 11,380 1,897 3,662 1,505 260 128 (a) includes multiple completion wells (wells producing from different formations in the same bore hole) totaling 93 gross wells and 55 net wells. (b) gross and net developed acreage in norway was approximately 57 thousand and 36 thousand, respectively. gross and net productive oil wells in norway were 52 and 33, respectively. exploratory and development wells net exploratory and net development wells completed during the years ended december 31 were: net exploratory wells net development wells 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 productive wells united states 8 83 181 202 europe 1 5 4 africa 2 4 asia and other 3 1 4 3 10 84 187 214 dry holes united states 1 1 europe africa 1 asia and other (a) 1 5 3 2 6 4 total 2 9 14 84 187 214 (a) in 2016, we expensed 18 wells relating to our equus natural gas project, offshore australia, which were drilled in prior years. number of wells in the process of being drilled at december 31, 2016 the number of wells in the process of drilling amounted to: gross net wells wells united states 17 10 asia and other 15 7 total 32 17 10 bakken midstream in july 2015, we sold a 50% interest in hess infrastructure partners lp (hip) to global infrastructure partners (gip) for net cash consideration of approximately $2.6 billion. hip and its affiliates primarily comprise the bakken midstream operating segment which provides fee-based services. the bakken midstream operating segment generates substantially all of its revenues by charging fees for gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating natural gas liquids, or ngls; gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and ngls; and storing and terminaling propane, primarily in the bakken and three forks shale plays in the williston basin area of north dakota. the bakken midstream operating segment currently generates substantially all of its revenues under long-term, fee-based agreements with our e&amp;p operating segment but intends to pursue additional throughput volumes from third parties in the williston basin area. we operate the bakken midstream assets and operations under various operational and administrative services agreements. bakken midstream assets include the following: natural gas gathering and compression. a natural gas gathering and compression system located primarily in mckenzie, williams and mountrail counties, north dakota connecting hess and third-party owned or operated wells to the tioga gas plant and third-party pipeline facilities. this gathering system consists of approximately 1,211 miles of high and low pressure natural gas and ngl gathering pipelines with a current capacity of up to 345 mmcfd, including an aggregate compression capacity of 174 mmcfd. the system also includes the hawkeye gas facility, which contributes 50 mmcfd of the system's current compression capacity. crude oil gathering. a crude oil gathering system located primarily in mckenzie, williams and mountrail counties, north dakota, connecting hess and third-party owned or operated wells to the ramberg terminal facility, the tioga rail terminal and, when completed, the johnson's corner header system. the crude oil gathering system consists of approximately 365 miles of crude oil gathering pipelines with a current capacity of up to 161,000 bopd. the system also includes the hawkeye oil facility, which contributes 76,000 bopd of the system's current capacity. tioga gas plant. a natural gas processing and fractionation plant located in tioga, north dakota, with a current processing capacity of 250 mmcfd and fractionation capacity of 60,000 boepd. mentor storage terminal. a propane storage cavern and rail and truck loading and unloading facility located in mentor, minnesota, with approximately 328,000 boe of working storage capacity. ramberg terminal facility. a crude oil pipeline and truck receipt terminal located in williams county, north dakota that is capable of delivering up to 282,000 bopd of crude oil into an interconnecting pipeline for transportation to the tioga rail terminal and to multiple third-party pipelines and storage facilities. tioga rail terminal. a 140,000 bopd crude oil and 30,000 boepd ngl rail loading terminal in tioga, north dakota that is connected to the tioga gas plant, the ramberg terminal facility and our crude oil gathering system. during the summer of 2016, hess piloted five third-party ngl unit trains consisting of 60 ngl rail cars that originated at the tioga rail terminal. crude oil rail cars. a total of 550 crude oil rail cars, which we operate as unit trains consisting of approximately 100 to 110 crude oil rail cars. these crude oil rail cars have been constructed to dot-117 standards, with the exception of electronically controlled pneumatic brakes which, if required, can be added at a later date, prior to the regulation deadline, for minimal cost. in addition, hip also has 956 older specification crude oil rail cars that are capable of being upgraded to the most recent dot-117 safety standards. in 2016, we recorded an impairment charge against these older specification rail cars. see note 6, impairment in notes to consolidated financial statements . johnson's corner header system. we are currently constructing the johnson's corner header system, a crude oil pipeline header system located in mckenzie county, north dakota that will receive crude oil by pipeline from hess and third parties and deliver crude oil to third-party interstate pipeline systems. at commissioning, the facility will have a delivery capacity of approximately 100,000 bopd of crude oil. we expect the johnson's corner header system to enter into service in 2017. hip owns 100% of hess midstream partners lp, which was formed to own, operate, develop and acquire a diverse set of midstream assets to provide fee-based services to both hess corporation and third party customers as a publicly traded master limited partnership upon the future completion of an initial public offering of limited partnership units. hess midstream partners lp filed an amendment to its registration statement on form s-1 on february 13, 2017. the assets to be held by hess midstream partners lp at the time of its initial public offering are expected to include a 20% economic interest in hess north dakota pipelines operations lp (owner of the natural gas gathering and compression and crude oil gathering systems), a 20% economic interest in hess tgp operations lp (owner of the tioga gas plant), a 20% economic interest in 11 hess north dakota export logistics operations lp (owner of the tioga rail terminal, ramberg terminal facility and 550 crude oil rail cars), and a 100% interest in hess mentor storage holdings llc (owner o f the mentor storage terminal). beginning january 1, 2017, hess's midstream segment will include our interest in a permian gas plant in west texas and related co 2 assets, and water handling assets in north dakota as a result of organizational changes to the management of the assets. these assets are wholly-owned by the corporation and are not included in our hip joint venture. divested downstream businesses in 2013, we announced several initiatives to continue our transformation from an integrated energy company into a more geographically focused pure play e&amp;p company. the transformation plan included fully exiting the corporation's marketing and refining (m&amp;r) business, including its terminal, retail, energy marketing and energy trading operations, as well as the permanent shutdown of refining operations at its port reading, nj facility. see note 9, discontinued operations in notes to consolidated financial statements . hovensa llc (hovensa), a 50/50 joint venture between the corporation's subsidiary, hess oil virgin islands corp. (hovic), and a subsidiary of petroleos de venezuela s.a. (pdvsa), had previously shut down its u.s. virgin islands refinery in 2012 and filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code in the united states district court of the virgin islands in september 2015. in january 2016, a sale of hovensa's terminal and refinery assets to limetree bay terminals, llc was completed and the bankruptcy court entered an order confirming hovensa's chapter 11 plan of liquidation (the liquidation plan ). under the liquidation plan, hovensa established a liquidating trust to distribute certain assets and sale proceeds to its creditors, established an environmental response trust to administer to hovensa's remaining environmental obligations and to conduct an orderly wind-down of its remaining activities. see note 10, hovensa llc in notes to consolidated financial statements . competition and market conditions see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of competition and market conditions. 12 other items emergency preparedness and response plans and procedures we have in place a series of business and asset-specific emergency preparedness, response and business continuity plans that detail procedures for rapid and effective emergency response and environmental mitigation activities. these plans are risk appropriate and are maintained, reviewed and updated as necessary to confirm their accuracy and suitability. where appropriate, they are also reviewed and approved by the relevant host government authorities. responder training and drills are routinely held worldwide to assess and continually improve the effectiveness of our plans. our contractors, service providers, representatives from government agencies and, where applicable, joint venture partners participate in the drills to help ensure that emergency procedures are comprehensive and can be effectively implemented. to complement internal capabilities and to help ensure coverage for our global operations, we maintain membership contracts with a network of local, regional and global oil spill response and emergency response organizations. at the regional and global level, these organizations include clean gulf associates (cga), marine spill response corporation (msrc), marine well containment company (mwcc), wild well control (wwc), subsea well intervention service (swis) and oil spill response limited (osrl). cga and msrc are domestic spill response organizations and mwcc provides the equipment and personnel to contain underwater well control incidents in the gulf of mexico. wwc provides firefighting, well control and engineering services globally. osrl is a global response organization and is available, when needed, to assist us anywhere in the world. in addition to owning response assets in their own right, the organization maintains business relationships that provide immediate access to additional critical response support services if required. these owned response assets include nearly 300 recovery and storage vessels and barges, more than 250 skimmers, over 600,000 feet of boom, 9 capping stacks and significant quantities of dispersants and other ancillary equipment, including aircraft. in addition to external well control and oil spill response support, we have contracts with wildlife, environmental, meteorology, incident management, medical and security resources. if we were to engage these organizations to obtain additional critical response support services, we would fund such services and seek reimbursement under our insurance coverage, as described below. in certain circumstances, we pursue and enter into mutual aid agreements with other companies and government cooperatives to receive and provide oil spill response equipment and personnel support. we maintain close associations with emergency response organizations through our representation on the executive committees of cga and msrc, as well as the board of directors of osrl. we continue to participate in a number of industry wide task forces that are studying better ways to assess the risk of and prevent onshore and offshore incidents, access and control blowouts in subsea environments, and improve containment and recovery methods. the task forces are working closely with the oil and gas industry and international government agencies to implement improvements and increase the effectiveness of oil spill prevention, preparedness, response and recovery processes. insurance coverage and indemnification we maintain insurance coverage that includes coverage for physical damage to our property, third-party liability, workers' compensation and employers' liability, general liability, sudden and accidental pollution and other coverage. this insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limitations and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. the amount of insurance covering physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding atlantic named windstorm coverage for which we are self insured, varies by asset, based on the asset's estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss. in the case of a catastrophic event, first party coverage consists of two tiers of insurance. the first $400 million of coverage is provided through an industry mutual insurance group. above this $400 million threshold, insurance is carried which ranges in value up to $3.19 billion in total, depending on the asset coverage level, as described above. additionally, we carry insurance that provides third-party coverage for general liability, and sudden and accidental pollution, up to $1.08 billion, which coverage under a standard joint operating arrangement would be reduced to our participating interest. our insurance policies renew at various dates each year. future insurance coverage could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions, or additional exclusions or limitations. in addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that are deemed economically acceptable. generally, our drilling contracts (and most of our other offshore services contracts) provide for a mutual hold harmless indemnity structure whereby each party to the contract (the corporation and contractor) indemnifies the other party for injuries or damages to their personnel and property (and, often, those of its contractors/subcontractors) regardless of fault. 13 variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of a party. third party claims, on the other hand, are generally allocated on a fault basis. we are customarily responsible for, and indemnify the contractor against, all claims including those from third parties, to the extent attributable to pollution or contamination by substances originating from our reservoirs or other property (regardless of cause, including gross negligence and willful misconduct) and the contractor is responsible for and indemnifies us for all claims attributable to pollution emanating from the contractor's property. additionally, we are generally liable for all of our own losses and most third party claims associated with catastrophic losses such as damage to reservoirs, blowouts, cratering and loss of hole, regardless of cause, although exceptions for losses attributable to gross negligence and/or willful misconduct do exist. lastly, some offshore services contracts include overall limitations of the contractor's liability equal to the value of the contract or a fixed amount. under a standard joint operating agreement (joa), each party is liable for all claims arising under the joa, to the extent of its participating interest (operator or non-operator). variations include indemnity exclusions when the claim is based upon the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of the operator, in which case the operator is solely liable. the parties to the joa may continue to be jointly and severally liable for claims made by third-parties in some jurisdictions. further, under some production sharing contracts between a governmental entity and commercial parties, liability of the commercial parties to the government entity is joint and several. environmental compliance with various existing environmental and pollution control regulations imposed by federal, state, local and foreign governments is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations but increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general. we spent approximately $10 million in 2016 for environmental remediation. the level of other expenditures to comply with federal, state, local and foreign country environmental regulations is difficult to quantify as such costs are captured as mostly indistinguishable components of our capital expenditures and operating expenses. for further discussion of environmental matters see environment, health and safety in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . number of employees at december 31, 2016, we had 2,304 employees. website access to our reports we make available free of charge through our website at www.hess.com, our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission. the information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this report. our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the audit committee, compensation and management development committee, and corporate governance and nominating committee of the board of directors are available on our website and are also available free of charge upon request to investor relations at our principal executive office. we also file with the new york stock exchange (nyse) an annual certification that our chief executive officer is unaware of any violation of the nyse's corporate governance standards. 14 ite m 1a. risk factors our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant risks, including the risk factors described below. these risk factors could negatively affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, and as a result, holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. it is possible that additional risks relating to our securities may be described in a prospectus supplement if we issue securities in the future. our business and operating results are highly dependent on the market prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, which can be very volatile. our estimated proved reserves, revenue, operating cash flows, operating margins, liquidity, financial condition and future earnings are highly dependent on the benchmark market prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, and our associated realized price differentials, which are volatile and influenced by numerous factors beyond our control. the major foreign oil producing countries, including members of opec, may exert considerable influence over the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products. their ability or inability to agree on a common policy on rates of production and other matters may have a significant impact on the oil markets. other factors include, but are not limited to: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, political conditions and events (including instability, changes in governments, or armed conflict) around the world and in particular in crude oil or natural gas producing regions, the cost of exploring for, developing and producing crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, the price and availability of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, the effect of energy conservation and environmental protection efforts and overall economic conditions globally. the sentiment of commodities trading markets as well as other supply and demand factors may also influence the selling prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas. average prices for 2016 were $43.47 per barrel for wti (2015: $48.76; 2014: $92.91) and $45.13 per barrel for brent (2015: $53.60; 2014: $99.45). in order to manage the potential volatility of cash flows and credit requirements, we maintain significant bank credit facilities. an inability to access, renew or replace such credit facilities or access other sources of funding as they mature would negatively impact our liquidity. if we fail to successfully increase our reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will be adversely impacted. we own or have access to a finite amount of oil and gas reserves which will be depleted over time. replacement of oil and gas production and reserves, including proved undeveloped reserves, is subject to successful exploration drilling, development activities, and enhanced recovery programs. therefore, future oil and gas production is dependent on technical success in finding and developing additional hydrocarbon reserves. exploration activity involves the interpretation of seismic and other geological and geophysical data, which does not always successfully predict the presence of commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. drilling risks include unexpected adverse conditions, irregularities in pressure or formations, equipment failure, blowouts and weather interruptions. future developments may be affected by unforeseen reservoir conditions which negatively affect recovery factors or flow rates. reserve replacement can also be achieved through acquisition. similar risks, however, may be encountered in the production of oil and gas on properties acquired from others. in addition to the technical risks to reserve replacement, replacing reserves and developing future production is also influenced by the price of crude oil and natural gas and costs of drilling and development activities. persistent lower crude oil and natural gas prices, such as those currently prevailing, may have the effect of reducing capital available for exploration and development activity and may render certain development projects uneconomic or delay their completion and may result in negative revisions to existing reserves while increasing drilling and development costs could negatively affect expected economic returns. there are inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and discounted future net cash flows, and actual quantities may be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues from those reserves. actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities of our proved reserves and the related future net revenues. in addition, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward changes based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, production sharing contracts, which may decrease reserves as crude oil and natural gas prices increase, and other factors. crude oil prices declined significantly in 2015 and to a lesser extent in 2016 resulting in reductions to our reported proved reserves. if crude oil prices in 2017 average below prices used to determine proved reserves at december 31, 2016, it could have an adverse effect on our estimated proved reserves and the value of our business. see crude oil and natural gas reserves in critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we do not always control decisions made under joint operating agreements and the parties under such agreements may fail to meet their obligations. we conduct many of our e&amp;p operations through joint operating agreements with other parties under which we may not control decisions, either because we do not have a controlling interest or are not operator under the agreement. there is risk that these parties may at any time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and therefore decisions may be made which are not what we believe is in our best interest. 15 moreover, parties to these agreements may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. in either case, the value of our investment may be adversely affected. we are subject to changing laws and regulations and other governmental actions that can significantly and adversely affect our business. federal, state, local, territorial and foreign laws and regulations relating to tax increases and retroactive tax claims, disallowance of tax credits and deductions, expropriation or nationalization of property, mandatory government participation, cancellation or amendment of contract rights, imposition of capital controls or blocking of funds, changes in import and export regulations, limitations on access to exploration and development opportunities, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, as well as other political developments may affect our operations. we have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas involves substantial costs, which may not be fully funded from operations. for example, in 2016, we had a significant net loss and, if commodity prices remain low through 2017, we are forecasting a net loss for 2017. two of the three major credit rating agencies that rate our debt have assigned an investment grade rating. in february 2016, standard and poor's ratings services (s&amp;p) lowered our investment grade credit rating one notch to bbb- with stable outlook and moody's investors service (moody's) lowered our credit rating to ba1 with stable outlook, which is below investment grade. in december 2016, fitch ratings (fitch) lowered our investment grade credit rating one notch to bbb- with stable outlook. in february 2017, s&amp;p re-affirmed our investment grade credit rating of bbb- with stable outlook. although, currently we do not have any borrowings under our long-term credit facility, further ratings downgrades, continued weakness in the oil and gas industry or negative outcomes within commodity and financial markets could adversely impact our access to capital markets by increasing the costs of financing, or by impacting our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, or at all. in addition, further ratings downgrades may require that we issue letters of credit or provide other forms of collateral under certain contractual requirements. any inability to access capital markets could adversely impact our financial adaptability and our ability to execute our strategy and may also expose us to heightened exposure to credit risk. political instability in areas where we operate can adversely affect our business. some of the international areas in which we operate, and the partners with whom we operate, are politically less stable than other areas and partners and may be subject to civil unrest, conflict, insurgency, geographic territorial border disputes, corruption, security risks and labor unrest. political and civil unrest in north africa and the middle east has affected and may affect our operations in these areas as well as oil and gas markets generally. the threat of terrorism around the world also poses additional risks to the operations of the oil and gas industry. our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks and environmental laws and regulations that can result in significant costs and liabilities. our oil and gas operations, like those of the industry, are subject to environmental risks such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose us to substantial liability for pollution or other environmental damage. our operations are also subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. non compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial clean-ups and natural resource damages or other liabilities. in addition, increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general. similarly, we have material legal obligations to dismantle, remove and abandon production facilities and wells that will occur many years in the future, in most cases. these estimates may be impacted by future changes in regulations and other uncertainties. concerns have been raised in certain jurisdictions where we have operations concerning the safety and environmental impact of the drilling and development of shale oil and gas resources, particularly hydraulic fracturing, water usage, flaring of associated natural gas and air emissions. while we believe that these operations can be conducted safely and with minimal impact on the environment, regulatory bodies are responding to these concerns and may impose moratoriums and new regulations on such drilling operations that would likely have the effect of prohibiting or delaying such operations and increasing their cost. climate change initiatives may result in significant operational changes and expenditures, reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our business. we recognize that climate change is a global environmental concern. continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional or local legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. these agreements and measures may require significant equipment modifications, operational changes, taxes, or purchase of emission credits to reduce emission of greenhouse gases from our operations, which may result in substantial capital expenditures and compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs. in addition, our production is used to produce petroleum fuels, which through normal customer use may result in the emission of greenhouse gases. regulatory initiatives to reduce the use of these fuels may reduce demand for crude oil and other hydrocarbons and have an adverse effect on our 16 sales volumes, revenues and margins. the imposition and enforcement of stringent greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets could severely and adversely impact the oil and gas industry and significantly reduce the value of our business. our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have. the petroleum industry is highly competitive and very capital intensive. we encounter competition from numerous companies in each of our activities, including acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas. many competitors, including national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources. we are also in competition with producers of other forms of energy. increased competition for worldwide oil and gas assets could significantly increase the cost of acquiring oil and gas assets. in addition, competition for drilling services, technical expertise and equipment may affect the availability of technical personnel and drilling rigs, resulting in increased capital and operating costs. catastrophic events, whether naturally occurring or man made, may materially affect our operations and financial conditions. our oil and gas operations are subject to unforeseen occurrences which have affected us from time to time and which may damage or destroy assets, interrupt operations and have other significant adverse effects. examples of catastrophic risks include hurricanes, fires, explosions, blowouts, such as the third-party accident at the macondo prospect, pipeline interruptions and ruptures, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes or cyber attacks. although we maintain insurance coverage against property and casualty losses, there can be no assurance that such insurance will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. moreover, some forms of insurance may be unavailable in the future or be available only on terms that are deemed economically unacceptable. significant time delays between the estimated and actual occurrence of critical events associated with development projects may result in material negative economic consequences. we are involved in several large development projects and the completion of those projects may be delayed beyond what was originally anticipated. such examples include, but are not limited to, delays in receiving necessary approvals from project members or regulatory agencies, timely access to necessary equipment, availability of necessary personnel, construction delays, unfavorable weather conditions and equipment failures. this may lead to delays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events. these delays could impact our future results of operations and cash flows. departures of key members from our senior management team, and/or difficulty in recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of experienced technical personnel, could negatively impact our ability to deliver on our strategic goals. the derivation and monitoring of successful strategies and related policies may be negatively impacted by the departure of key members of senior management. moreover, an inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of experienced technical and professional personnel in the necessary locations may prohibit us from executing our strategy in full or, in part, with a commensurate impact on shareholder value. we are dependent on oilfield service companies for items including drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor. an inability or significant delay in securing these services, or a high cost thereof, may result in material negative economic consequences. the availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor will fluctuate over time given the cyclical nature of the e&amp;p industry. as a result, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining required services or could face an increase in cost. these consequences may impact our ability to run our operations and to deliver projects on time with the potential for material negative economic consequences. we manage commodity price and other risks through our risk management function but such activities may impede our ability to benefit from commodity price increases and can expose us to similar potential counterparty credit risk as impacts amounts due from the sale of hydrocarbons. we may enter into commodity price hedging arrangements to protect us from commodity price declines. these arrangements may, depending on the instruments used and the level of increases involved, limit any potential upside from commodity price increases. as with accounts receivable we may be exposed to potential economic loss should a counterparty be unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under the terms of a hedging agreement. in addition, we are exposed to risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values, and may engage in hedging activities to mitigate related volatility. cyber attacks targeting computer, telecommunications systems, and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry may materially impact our business and operations. computers and telecommunication systems are used to conduct our exploration, development and production activities and have become an integral part of our business. we use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicate within our company and with outside business partners. cyber attacks could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems and result in disruptions to our business operations or the loss of our data and proprietary information. in addition, computers control oil and gas production, processing equipment, and distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market. a cyber attack against these operating systems, or the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets, and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. as a result, a cyber-attack could have a material adverse impact on 17 our cash flows and results of operations. we routinely experience attempts by external parties to penetrate and attack our networks and systems. although such attempts to date have not resulted in any material breaches, disruptions, or l oss of business critical information, our systems and procedures for protecting against such attacks and mitigating such risks may prove to be insufficient in the future and such attacks could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. in addi tion, as technologies evolve and these attacks become more sophisticated, we may incur significant costs to upgrade or enhance our security measures to protect against such attacks.risk factors within this document. glossary throughout this report, the following company or industry specific terms and abbreviations are used: appraisal well an exploration well drilled to confirm the results of a discovery well, or a well used to determine the boundaries of a productive formation. bbl one stock tank barrel, which is 42 united states gallons liquid volume. barrel of oil equivalent or boe this reflects natural gas reserves converted on the basis of relative energy content of six mcf equals one barrel of oil equivalent (one mcf represents one thousand cubic feet). barrel of oil equivalence does not necessarily result in price equivalence, as the equivalent price of natural gas on a barrel of oil equivalent basis has been substantially lower than the corresponding price for crude oil over the recent past. see the average selling prices in the table on page 9. boepd barrels of oil equivalent per day. bopd barrels of oil per day. condensate a mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in the gaseous phase at original reservoir temperature and pressure, but that when produced, is in the liquid phase at surface pressure and temperature. development well a well drilled within the proved area of an oil and/or natural gas reservoir with the intent of producing oil and/or natural gas from that area of the reservoir. dry hole or dry well an exploratory or development well that does not find oil or natural gas in commercial quantities. exploratory well a well drilled to find oil or natural gas in an unproved area or find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive by another reservoir. fractionation fractionation is the process by which the mixture of ngls that results from natural gas processing is separated into the ngl components, such as ethane, propane, butane, isobutane, and natural gasoline, prior to their sale to various petrochemical and industrial end users. fractionation is accomplished by controlling the temperature of the stream of mixed liquids in order to take advantage of the difference in boiling points of separate products. field an area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic condition. gross acreage acreage in which a working interest is held by the corporation. gross well a well in which a working interest is held by the corporation. mcf one thousand cubic feet of natural gas. mmcfd one thousand mcf of natural gas per day. net acreage or net wells the sum of the fractional working interests owned by us in gross acres or gross wells. ngls or natural gas liquids naturally occurring substances that are separated and produced by fractionating natural gas, including ethane, butane, isobutane, propane and natural gasoline. natural gas liquids do not sell at prices equivalent to crude oil. see the average selling prices in the table on page 9. non-operated projects in which the corporation has a working interest but does not perform the role of operator. opec organization of petroleum exporting countries. operator the entity responsible for conducting and managing exploration, development, and/or production operations for an oil or gas project. participating interest reflects the proportion of exploration and production costs each party will bear or the proportion of production each party will receive, as set out in an operating agreement. production entitlement the share of gross production the corporation is entitled to receive under the terms of a production sharing contract. production sharing contract an agreement between a host government and the owners (or co-owners) of a well or field regarding the percentage of production each party will receive after the parties have recovered a specified amount of capital and operational expenses. 2 productive well a well that is capable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify commercial exploitation. proved properties properties with proved reserves. proved reserves in accordance with securities and exchange commission regulations and practices recognized in the publication of the society of petroleum engineers entitled, standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserves information, those quantities of crude oil and condensate, ngls and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. the project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. proved developed reserves proved reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or for which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well. proved undeveloped reserves proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. unproved properties properties with no proved reserves. working interest an interest in an oil and gas property that provides the owner of the interest the right to drill for and produce oil and gas on the relevant acreage and requires the owner to pay a share of the costs of drilling and production operations. 3 part i items 1 and 2. business and properties hess corporation, incorporated in the state of delaware in 1920, is a global exploration and production (e&amp;p) company engaged in exploration, development, production, transportation, purchase and sale of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas with production operations located primarily in the united states (u.s.), denmark, the malaysia/thailand joint development area (jda) and malaysia. the corporation conducts exploration activities primarily offshore guyana, suriname, canada and in the gulf of mexico, including at the stabroek block, offshore guyana, where we have participated in six significant crude oil discoveries and sanctioned the first phase of a multi-phase development project at the liza field. during 2017, we sold our interests in equatorial guinea, norway and our enhanced oil recovery assets in the permian basin, onshore u.s. the 2017 asset sales of higher cost, mature assets will provide funds toward our future development projects in the stabroek block, offshore guyana. in the fourth quarter of 2017, we announced that we would commence a process to sell our interests in denmark in 2018. the corporation's midstream operating segment provides fee-based services, including gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating natural gas liquids (ngls); gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and ngls; and storing and terminaling propane, primarily in the bakken and three forks shale plays in the williston basin area of north dakota. on january 1, 2017, the corporation's interests in a permian basin gas plant in west texas and related co 2 assets, and water handling assets in north dakota were transferred from the e&amp;p segment to the midstream segment as a result of organizational changes to the management of those assets. in the third quarter of 2017, we completed the sale of our midstream assets in the permian basin. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further details. exploration and production proved reserves proved reserves are calculated using the average price during the twelve-month period ending december 31 determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of each month within the year, unless prices are defined by contractual agreements, and exclude escalations based on future conditions. crude oil prices used in the determination of proved reserves at december 31, 2017 were $51.19 per barrel for wti (2016: $42.68) and $54.87 per barrel for brent (2016: $44.45). our total proved developed and undeveloped reserves at december 31 were as follows: crude oil &amp; condensate natural gas liquids natural gas total barrels of oil equivalent (boe) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 (millions of bbls) (millions of bbls) (millions of mcf) (millions of bbls) developed united states 239 245 87 59 526 404 414 371 europe (a) 45 116 3 80 125 58 140 africa 112 138 117 132 132 160 asia and other 5 5 696 739 121 128 401 504 87 62 1,419 1,400 725 799 undeveloped united states 194 110 84 27 354 186 337 168 europe (a) 4 94 5 12 95 6 115 africa 16 24 7 11 17 26 asia and other (b) 44 149 5 69 1 258 228 84 32 522 297 429 310 total united states 433 355 171 86 880 590 751 539 europe (a) 49 210 8 92 220 64 255 africa 128 162 124 143 149 186 asia and other (b) 49 5 845 744 190 129 659 732 171 94 1,941 1,697 1,154 1,109 (a) at december 31, 2016, proved reserves in norway, which were sold in 2017, included crude oil and condensate of 165 million barrels (developed - 75 million barrels; undeveloped - 90 million barrels), natural gas liquids of 8 million barrels (developed - 3 million barrels; undeveloped - 5 million barrels), and natural gas of 160 million mcf (developed - 72 million mcf; undeveloped 88 million mcf). (b) asia and other includes proved undeveloped reserves in guyana of 45 million boe at december 31, 2017 (2016: 0 million boe). 4 proved undeveloped reserves were 37% of our total proved reserves at december 31, 2017 on a boe basis (2016: 28%). proved reserves he ld under production sharing contracts totaled 7% of our crude oil reserves and 44% of our natural gas reserves at december 31, 2017 (2016: 4% and 45%, respectively). for additional information regarding our proved oil and gas reserves, see the supplementary oil and gas data to the consolidated financial statements presented on pages 81 through 91. production worldwide crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas net production was as follows: 2017 2016 2015 crude oil (thousands of barrels) united states bakken 24,439 24,881 29,579 other onshore (a) 2,053 3,209 3,814 total onshore 26,492 28,090 33,393 offshore 14,411 16,649 20,391 total united states 40,903 44,739 53,784 europe norway (a) 7,236 8,387 9,985 denmark 2,988 3,636 3,981 10,224 12,023 13,966 africa equatorial guinea (a) 9,201 11,898 15,881 libya 3,542 387 20 algeria 2,589 12,743 12,285 18,490 asia jda 586 616 613 malaysia 289 152 196 875 768 809 total 64,745 69,815 87,049 2017 2016 2015 (thousands of barrels) natural gas liquids united states bakken 10,107 9,701 7,438 other onshore (a) 2,972 4,205 4,215 total onshore 13,079 13,906 11,653 offshore 1,733 1,724 2,258 total united states 14,812 15,630 13,911 europe - norway (a) 340 408 499 total 15,152 16,038 14,410 5 2017 2016 2015 natural gas (thousands of mcf) united states bakken 22,621 22,312 23,214 other onshore (a) 33,478 48,597 39,929 total onshore 56,099 70,909 63,143 offshore 20,987 23,603 31,751 total united states 77,086 94,512 94,894 europe norway (a) 6,739 8,541 9,973 denmark 5,124 7,128 5,588 11,863 15,669 15,561 asia and other jda 73,444 68,031 83,900 malaysia (b) 27,225 13,151 18,994 100,669 81,182 102,894 total 189,618 191,363 213,349 total barrels of oil equivalent (in millions) (b) 112 118 137 (a) in 2017, the corporation sold its assets in equatorial guinea (november), norway (december), and the permian, onshore u.s. (august). permian production averaged 4,000 boepd in 2017 (2016: 7,000 boepd; 2015: 9,000 boepd). see note 2, dispositions in the notes to consolidated financial statements. (b) includes 4,256 thousand mcf of production for 2017 (2016: 3,624 thousand mcf; 2015: 5,321 thousand mcf) from block pm301 which is unitized into block a-18 of the jda. e&amp;p operations at december 31, 2017, our significant e&amp;p assets include the following: united states our production in the u.s. was from onshore properties, principally in the bakken oil shale play in the williston basin of north dakota (bakken) and the utica basin of ohio and from offshore properties in the gulf of mexico. onshore: bakken: at december 31, 2017, we held approximately 554,000 net acres in the bakken with varying working interest percentages. during 2017, we operated an average of 3.5 rigs, drilled 85 wells, completed 68 wells, and brought 68 wells on production, bringing the total operated production wells to 1,315 by year-end. drilling and completion costs per operated well averaged $5.6 million in 2017, based on a change in our standard well design during the year to a 60-stage completion with proppant loadings of 140,000 pounds per stage compared to an average well cost of $4.8 million in 2016 using a 50-stage completion with proppant loadings of 70,000 pounds per stage. during 2018, we plan to increase our rig count in the second half of the year to six rigs from four rigs, to drill approximately 120 wells and bring approximately 95 wells on production. in addition, our capital budget for 2018 will fund pad construction in preparation for 2019 drilling. we forecast net production for full year 2018 to be in the range of 115,000 boepd to 120,000 boepd, compared to production of 105,000 boepd in 2017. utica: we own a 50% working interest in approximately 37,000 net acres in the wet gas area of the utica basin of ohio. there was no drilling activity in the utica in 2017. in 2018, we expect to complete and bring on production five previously drilled wells. offshore: at december 31, 2017, we held interests in 73 blocks in the deepwater gulf of mexico. our production offshore in the gulf of mexico was principally from the baldpate (hess 50%), conger (hess 38%), hack wilson (hess 25%), llano (hess 50%), penn state (hess 50%), shenzi (hess 28%) and tubular bells (hess 57%) fields. in addition, we are operator of the stampede development project (hess 25%). at december 31, 2017, we held approximately 210,000 net undeveloped acres, of which leases covering approximately 55,000 acres are due to expire in the next three years. 6 significant events relating to operations in the gulf of mexico during 2017 were as follows: producing assets: production from the baldpate, conger, llano and penn state fields were shut-in following a fire at the third-party operated enchilada platform in november 2017. prior to the shut-down, net production from these assets was approximately 30,000 boepd. production at the baldpate field restarted in mid-february and is expected to restart at the penn state field in the first quarter, at the llano field in the second quarter, and at the conger field in the third quarter of 2018. penn state: at this hess operated field, we drilled one production well that was completed in november 2017. stampede: at this hess operated project in the green canyon area of the gulf of mexico, in 2017 we completed installation of the tension leg platform and subsea equipment, finished drilling and completing three production wells, and received regulatory approval for production operations at the end of the year. in january 2018, we commenced production from the field, which is expected to ramp up over the next 18 months as we continue a drilling program of three additional production wells and four water injection wells. europe denmark: in 2017, we announced that we plan to commence a process to sell our interest in the hess operated offshore south arne field (hess 62%) in 2018. total proved reserves for denmark were 64 million boe at december 31, 2017. africa ghana: at the hess operated offshore deepwater tano/cape three points license (hess 50% license interest), management determined in the fourth quarter of 2017 that it would not develop the previously discovered fields . as a result, we recorded a charge of $280 million to write-off previously capitalized exploration wells and other lease costs. see capitalized exploratory well costs in note 5, property, plant and equipment, and note 24, subsequent events in the notes to consolidated financial statements . libya: at the onshore waha concession in libya, which includes the defa, faregh, gialo, north gialo and belhedan fields (hess 8%), production was shut-in by the operator for extended periods in 2016 and 2015 due to force majeure caused by civil unrest. the national oil company of libya lifted force majeure in september 2016 and production recommenced in october 2016. net production averaged approximately 10,000 boepd in 2017, 1,000 boepd in 2016, and zero in 2015. asia and other malaysia/thailand joint development area (jda) : at the carigali hess operated offshore block a-18 in the gulf of thailand ( hess 50% ), no drilling is planned for 2018 as contracted volumes are expected to be met as a result of the booster compression project that came online in 2016. malaysia: our production in malaysia comes from our interest in block pm301 (hess 50%), which is adjacent to and is unitized with block a 18 of the jda and our 50% interest in blocks pm302, pm325 and pm326b located in the north malay basin (nmb), offshore peninsular malaysia, where we operate a multi phase natural gas development project. in july 2017, production of natural gas commenced from the full-field development and net production for 2017 averaged 66 mmcfd, with the planned plateau rate of 165 mmcfd being achieved in the fourth quarter. in 2018, we plan to drill three production wells and progress development activities related to future phases. guyana: at the esso exploration and production guyana limited operated offshore stabroek block (hess 30% participating interest), the partners sanctioned the first phase of the liza field development in 2017. this phase is expected to have a gross capital cost of approximately $3.2 billion for drilling and subsea infrastructure, of which we expect to incur $250 million net in 2018, with first production expected in march 2020. the development plan includes a leased floating production, storage and offloading (fpso) vessel that will have the capacity to process up to 120,000 barrels of oil per day from 17 wells, including eight producers, six water injectors and three gas injectors. at december 31, 2017, we have proved reserves of 45 million boe, related to liza phase 1. an application for an environmental permit to develop the second phase at liza has been submitted. the concept for phase 2 involves the use of a larger fpso vessel and subsea systems that would have a production capacity of approximately 220,000 bopd, with first production expected by mid-2022. planning is also underway for a third phase of development with an fpso vessel at the payara field with first production planned for 2023 or 2024. the size of the third ship will depend upon the results of future exploration and appraisal drilling. 7 in 2017, the following wells were completed on the stabroek block (in chronological order): payara-1: the well, located approximately 10 miles northwest of the liza discovery, encountered 95 feet of high-quality, oil bearing sandstone reservoirs. snoek-1 : the well encountered more than 82 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoirs and is located approximately 5 miles southeast of the liza-1 oil discovery. liza-4: the well encountered more than 197 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoirs. payara-2 : the well encountered 59 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoirs and confirmed a second large oil field in addition to the liza field. the well is located approximately 12 miles northwest from the liza phase 1 project. turbot-1: the well encountered a reservoir of 75 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone in the primary objective. the well is located approximately 30 miles to the southeast of the liza phase 1 project. in january 2018, the operator announced a sixth oil discovery at the ranger prospect. the ranger-1 well encountered approximately 230 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing carbonate reservoir, and is located approximately 60 miles to the northwest of the liza field. in 2018, additional drilling is planned, including appraisal of the liza, turbot and ranger discoveries, as well as a wider exploration program that will target additional prospects and play types on the block. drilling of the pacora prospect commenced in january. suriname : we hold a 33% non-operated participating interest in t he block 42 contract area, offshore suriname. the operator, kosmos energy ltd., completed a 6,500-square kilometer 3d seismic shoot in 2017 and expects to drill its first exploration well in 2018. in 2017, we entered into a 33% non-operated participating interest in the block 59 contract area, offshore suriname, where the operator, exxonmobil exploration and production suriname b.v., is planning a seismic program in 2018. canada: we hold a 50% participating interest in four exploration licenses offshore nova scotia. in 2018, the operator, bp canada, plans to drill its first exploration well. in addition, in 2017 we were granted a 25% participating interest in three bp canada operated exploration licenses offshore newfoundland. sales commitments we have certain long-term contracts with fixed minimum sales volume commitments for natural gas and natural gas liquids production. at the jda in the gulf of thailand, we have annual minimum net sales commitments of approximately 85 billion cubic feet of natural gas per year through 2025 and approximately 40 billion cubic feet per year in 2026 and 2027. at the north malay basin development project offshore malaysia, we have annual net sales commitments of approximately 55 billion cubic feet per year through 2024. our estimated total volume of production subject to these sales commitments is approximately 1.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. we also have natural gas liquids minimum delivery commitments, primarily in the bakken through 2023, of approximately 10 million barrels per year, or approximately 60 million barrels over the remaining life of the contracts. we have not experienced any significant constraints in satisfying the committed quantities required by our sales commitments, and we anticipate being able to meet future requirements from available proved and probable reserves and projected third-party supply. 8 selling prices and production costs the following table presents our average selling prices and average production costs: 2017 2016 2015 average selling prices (a) crude oil - per barrel (including hedging) united states onshore $ 46.04 $ 36.92 $ 42.67 offshore 47.34 37.47 46.21 total united states 46.50 37.13 44.01 europe (b) 55.03 43.33 55.10 africa 53.17 41.88 53.89 asia 56.99 42.98 52.74 worldwide 49.23 39.20 47.85 crude oil - per barrel (excluding hedging) united states onshore $ 46.76 $ 36.92 $ 41.22 offshore 48.15 37.47 46.21 total united states 47.25 37.13 43.11 europe (b) 55.14 43.33 52.37 africa 53.25 41.88 51.57 asia 56.99 42.98 52.74 worldwide 49.75 39.20 46.37 natural gas liquids - per barrel united states onshore $ 17.67 $ 9.18 $ 9.18 offshore 21.34 13.96 14.40 total united states 18.10 9.71 10.02 europe (b) 29.04 19.48 24.59 worldwide 18.35 9.95 10.52 natural gas - per mcf united states onshore $ 1.96 $ 1.48 $ 1.64 offshore 2.22 1.99 2.03 total united states 2.03 1.61 1.77 europe (b) 4.42 3.97 6.72 asia 4.27 5.31 5.97 worldwide 3.37 3.37 4.16 average production (lifting) costs per barrel of oil equivalent produced (c) united states onshore (d) $ 19.66 $ 18.46 $ 18.57 offshore 11.89 18.88 7.03 total united states 17.44 18.58 14.73 europe (b) 21.95 21.28 23.61 africa 14.40 20.53 23.12 asia and other 7.83 11.91 8.34 worldwide 16.08 18.32 16.12 (a) includes inter company transfers valued at approximate market prices and, primarily onshore u.s., is adjusted for certain processing and distribution fees. (b) in 2017, we sold our assets in norway. see note 2, dispositions in the notes to consolidated financial statements. the average selling prices in norway for 2016 were $43.32 per barrel for crude oil (including hedging), $43.32 per barrel for crude oil (excluding hedging), $19.48 per barrel for natural gas liquids and $5.22 per mcf for natural gas (2015: $54.89, $52.15, $24.59 and $8.58, respectively). the average production (lifting) costs in norway were $24.70 per barrel of oil equivalent in 2016 (2015: $25.81). (c) production (lifting) costs consist of amounts incurred to operate and maintain our producing oil and gas wells, related equipment and facilities and transportation costs, including midstream tariff expense. lifting costs do not include costs of finding and developing proved oil and gas reserves, production and severance taxes, or the costs of related general and administrative expenses, interest expense and income taxes. (d) includes midstream tariff expense of $11.10 per boe in 2017 (2016: $9.24 per boe; 2015: $8.52 per boe). 9 gross and net undeveloped acreage at december 31, 2017, gross and net undeveloped acreage amounted to: undeveloped acreage (a) gross net (in thousands) united states 412 348 europe 169 91 africa 3,831 521 asia and other 14,845 5,424 total (b) 19,257 6,384 (a) includes acreage held under production sharing contracts. (b) at december 31, 2017, licenses covering approximately 2% of our net undeveloped acreage held are scheduled to expire during the next three years pending the results of exploration activities. gross and net developed acreage, and productive wells at december 31, 2017 gross and net developed acreage and productive wells amounted to: developed acreage applicable to productive wells (a) productive wells oil gas gross net gross net gross net (in thousands) united states 1,034 603 2,535 1,251 158 68 europe 45 23 19 12 africa 9,564 782 1,022 83 asia and other 452 226 100 55 total 11,095 1,634 3,576 1,346 258 123 (a) includes multiple completion wells (wells producing from different formations in the same bore hole) totaling 106 gross wells and 62 net wells. exploratory and development wells net exploratory and net development wells completed during the years ended december 31 were: net exploratory wells net development wells 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 productive wells united states 65 83 181 europe 1 1 5 asia and other 2 1 3 1 1 2 1 3 67 84 187 dry holes united states 1 africa (a) 1 asia and other (b) 1 5 2 6 total 2 3 9 67 84 187 (a) in 2017, we expensed seven wells in our deepwater tano/cape three points block, offshore ghana, which were drilled in prior years. see note 5, property, plant and equipment in the notes to consolidated financial statements. (b) in 2016, we expensed 18 wells relating to our equus natural gas project, offshore australia, which were drilled in prior years. number of wells in the process of being drilled at december 31, 2017, the number of wells in the process of drilling amounted to: gross net wells wells united states 70 27 asia and other 2 1 total 72 28 10 midstream the midstream operating segment provides fee-based services, including gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating natural gas liquids (ngls); gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and ngls; and storing and terminaling propane, primarily in the bakken and three forks shale plays in the williston basin area of north dakota. in july 2015, we sold a 50% interest in hess infrastructure partners lp (hip) to global infrastructure partners (gip) for net cash consideration of approximately $2.6 billion. in april 2017, hess midstream partners lp (the partnership ), sold 16,997,000 common units representing limited partner interests at a price of $23 per unit in an initial public offering (ipo) for net proceeds of $365.5 million, of which $350 million was distributed equally to hess corporation and gip. at december 31, 2017, hess corporation and gip each owned a direct 33.75% limited partner interest in the partnership and a 50% indirect ownership interest through hip in the partnership's general partner, which has a 2% economic interest in the partnership plus incentive distribution rights. the public unit holders own a 30.5% limited partner interest in the partnership. in turn, the partnership owns an approximate 20% controlling interest in the operating companies that comprise our midstream joint venture, while hip, the 50/50 joint venture between hess corporation and gip, owns the remaining 80%. the partnership, and hip and its affiliates primarily comprise the midstream operating segment, which currently generates substantially all of its revenues under long-term, fee-based agreements with our e&amp;p operating segment but intends to pursue additional throughput volumes from third-parties in the williston basin area. we operate the midstream assets under various operational and administrative services agreements. beginning january 1, 2017, the midstream segment included our interest in a permian gas plant in west texas and related co 2 assets, and water handling assets in north dakota as a result of organizational changes to the management of those assets. in the third quarter of 2017, we completed the sale of our assets in the permian basin, including the gas plant in west texas and related co 2 assets. the water assets are wholly-owned by the corporation and are not included in our hip joint venture. at december 31, 2017, midstream assets include the following: natural gas gathering and compression: a natural gas gathering and compression system located primarily in mckenzie, williams and mountrail counties, north dakota connecting hess and third-party owned or operated wells to the tioga gas plant and third-party pipeline facilities. this gathering system consists of approximately 1,200 miles of high and low pressure natural gas and ngl gathering pipelines with a current capacity of up to 345 mmcfd, including an aggregate compression capacity of 174 mmcfd. the system also includes the hawkeye gas facility, which contributes 50 mmcfd of the system's current compression capacity. crude oil gathering: a crude oil gathering system located primarily in mckenzie, williams and mountrail counties, north dakota, connecting hess and third-party owned or operated wells to the ramberg terminal facility, the tioga rail terminal and the johnson's corner header system. the crude oil gathering system consists of approximately 365 miles of crude oil gathering pipelines with a current capacity of up to 161,000 bopd. the system also includes the hawkeye oil facility, which contributes 76,000 bopd of the system's current capacity. tioga gas plant: a natural gas processing and fractionation plant located in tioga, north dakota, with a current processing capacity of 250 mmcfd and fractionation capacity of 60,000 boepd. mentor storage terminal: a propane storage cavern and rail and truck loading and unloading facility located in mentor, minnesota, with approximately 328,000 boe of working storage capacity. ramberg terminal facility: a crude oil pipeline and truck receipt terminal located in williams county, north dakota that is capable of delivering up to 282,000 bopd of crude oil into an interconnecting pipeline for transportation to the tioga rail terminal and to multiple third-party pipelines and storage facilities. tioga rail terminal: a 140,000 bopd crude oil and 30,000 boepd ngl rail loading terminal in tioga, north dakota that is connected to the tioga gas plant, the ramberg terminal facility and our crude oil gathering system. crude oil rail cars: a total of 550 crude oil rail cars, which we operate as unit trains consisting of approximately 100 to 110 crude oil rail cars. these crude oil rail cars have been constructed to dot-117 standards. in addition, at december 31, 2017, hip also has 105 older specification crude oil rail cars. in 2016, we recorded an impairment charge against these older specification rail cars, which are not in service. see note 3, impairment in notes to consolidated financial statements . johnson's corner header system: a crude oil pipeline header system located in mckenzie county, north dakota that receives crude oil by pipeline from hess and third-parties and delivers crude oil to third-party interstate pipeline systems. the facility has a delivery capacity of approximately 100,000 bopd of crude oil. 11 in 2018, the partnership announced the formation of a 50/50 joint venture with targa resources corp. to construct a new 200 mmcfd gas processing plant south of the missouri river i n mckenzie county, north dakota, which is expected to be completed in the second half of 2018. the plant is expected to increase the midstream segment's total processing capacity in the bakken to 350 mmcfd. as part of this project, hip will construct new pipeline infrastructure to gather volumes for the new plant. the expected combined project costs attributable to our midstream segment is $175 million. competition and market conditions see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of competition and market conditions. other items emergency preparedness and response plans and procedures we have in place a series of business and asset-specific emergency preparedness, response and business continuity plans that detail procedures for rapid and effective emergency response and environmental mitigation activities. these plans are risk appropriate and are maintained, reviewed and updated as necessary to confirm their accuracy and suitability. where appropriate, they are also reviewed and approved by the relevant host government authorities. responder training and drills are routinely held worldwide to assess and continually improve the effectiveness of our plans. our contractors, service providers, representatives from government agencies and, where applicable, joint venture partners participate in the drills to help ensure that emergency procedures are comprehensive and can be effectively implemented. to complement internal capabilities and to help ensure coverage for our global operations, we maintain membership contracts with a network of local, regional and global oil spill response and emergency response organizations. at the regional and global level, these organizations include clean gulf associates (cga), marine spill response corporation (msrc), marine well containment company (mwcc), wild well control (wwc), subsea well intervention service (swis) and oil spill response limited (osrl). cga and msrc are domestic spill response organizations and mwcc provides the equipment and personnel to contain underwater well control incidents in the gulf of mexico. wwc provides firefighting, well control and engineering services globally. osrl is a global response organization and is available, when needed, to assist us anywhere in the world. in addition to owning response assets in their own right, the organization maintains business relationships that provide immediate access to additional critical response support services if required. these owned response assets include nearly 300 recovery and storage vessels and barges, more than 250 skimmers, over 600,000 feet of boom, 9 capping stacks and significant quantities of dispersants and other ancillary equipment, including aircraft. in addition to external well control and oil spill response support, we have contracts with wildlife, environmental, meteorology, incident management, medical and security resources. if we were to engage these organizations to obtain additional critical response support services, we would fund such services and seek reimbursement under our insurance coverage, as described below. in certain circumstances, we pursue and enter into mutual aid agreements with other companies and government cooperatives to receive and provide oil spill response equipment and personnel support. we maintain close associations with emergency response organizations through our representation on the executive committees of cga and msrc, as well as the board of directors of osrl. we continue to participate in a number of industry-wide task forces that are studying better ways to assess the risk of and prevent onshore and offshore incidents, access and control blowouts in subsea environments, and improve containment and recovery methods. the task forces are working closely with the oil and gas industry and international government agencies to implement improvements and increase the effectiveness of oil spill prevention, preparedness, response and recovery processes. insurance coverage and indemnification we maintain insurance coverage that includes coverage for physical damage to our property, third-party liability, workers' compensation and employers' liability, general liability, sudden and accidental pollution and other coverage. this insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limitations and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. the amount of insurance covering physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding atlantic named windstorm coverage for which we are self insured, varies by asset, based on the asset's estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss. in the case of a catastrophic event, first party coverage consists of two tiers of insurance. the first $400 million of coverage is provided through an industry mutual insurance group. above this $400 million threshold, insurance is carried which ranges in value 12 up to $1.11 billion in total, depending on the asset coverage level, as described above. the insurance programs covering physical damage to our property exclude business interruption protection for our e&amp;p operations. additionally, we carry insurance that provides third-party coverage for general liability, and sudden and accidental pollution, up to $1.08 billion, which coverage under a standard joint operating arrangement would be reduced to our participating interest. our insurance policies renew at various dates each year. future insurance coverage could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions, or additional exclusions or limitations. in addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that are deemed economically acceptable. generally, our drilling contracts (and most of our other offshore services contracts) provide for a mutual hold harmless indemnity structure whereby each party to the contract (the corporation and contractor) indemnifies the other party for injuries or damages to their personnel and property (and, often, those of its contractors/subcontractors) regardless of fault. variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of a party. third party claims, on the other hand, are generally allocated on a fault basis. we are customarily responsible for, and indemnify the contractor against, all claims including those from third parties, to the extent attributable to pollution or contamination by substances originating from our reservoirs or other property and the contractor is responsible for and indemnifies us for all claims attributable to pollution emanating from the contractor's property. variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of a party. additionally, we are generally liable for all of our own losses and most third party claims associated with catastrophic losses such as damage to reservoirs, blowouts, cratering and loss of hole, regardless of cause, although exceptions for losses attributable to gross negligence and/or willful misconduct do exist. lastly some offshore services contracts include overall limitations of the contractor's liability equal to a fixed negotiated amount. variations may include exclusions of all contractual indemnities from the liability cap. under a standard joint operating agreement (joa), each party is liable for all claims arising under the joa, to the extent of its participating interest (operator or non-operator). variations include indemnity exclusions when the claim is based upon the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of the operator, in which case the operator is solely liable. the parties to the joa may continue to be jointly and severally liable for claims made by third-parties in some jurisdictions. further, under some production sharing contracts between a governmental entity and commercial parties, liability of the commercial parties to the government entity is joint and several. environmental compliance with various existing environmental and pollution control regulations imposed by federal, state, local and foreign governments is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations but increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general. we spent approximately $15 million in 2017 for environmental remediation. the level of other expenditures to comply with federal, state, local and foreign country environmental regulations is difficult to quantify as such costs are captured as mostly indistinguishable components of our capital expenditures and operating expenses. for further discussion of environmental matters see environment, health and safety in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . number of employees at december 31, 2017, we had 2,075 employees. in january 2018, we eliminated approximately 300 of these positions. see note 24, subsequent events in notes to consolidated financial statements . website access to our reports we make available free of charge through our website at www.hess.com, our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission. the information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this report. our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the audit committee, compensation and management development committee, and corporate governance and nominating committee of the board of directors are available on our website and are also available free of charge upon request to investor relations at our principal executive office. we also file with the new york stock exchange (nyse) an annual certification that our chief executive officer is unaware of any violation of the nyse's corporate governance standards. 13 ite m 1a. risk factors our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant risks, including the risk factors described below. these risk factors could negatively affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, and as a result, holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. it is possible that additional risks relating to our securities may be described in a prospectus supplement if we issue securities in the future. our business and operating results are highly dependent on the market prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, which can be very volatile. our estimated proved reserves, revenue, operating cash flows, operating margins, liquidity, financial condition and future earnings are highly dependent on the benchmark market prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, and our associated realized price differentials, which are volatile and influenced by numerous factors beyond our control. the major foreign oil producing countries, including members of opec, may exert considerable influence over the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products. their ability or inability to agree on a common policy on rates of production and other matters may have a significant impact on the oil markets. other factors include, but are not limited to: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, political conditions and events (including instability, changes in governments, or armed conflict) around the world and in particular in crude oil or natural gas producing regions, the cost of exploring for, developing and producing crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, the price and availability of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, the effect of energy conservation and environmental protection efforts and overall economic conditions globally. the sentiment of commodities trading markets as well as other supply and demand factors may also influence the selling prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas. average prices for 2017 were $50.85 per barrel for wti (2016: $43.47; 2015: $48.76) and $54.74 per barrel for brent (2016: $45.13; 2015: $53.60). in order to manage the potential volatility of cash flows and credit requirements, we maintain significant bank credit facilities. an inability to access, renew or replace such credit facilities or access other sources of funding as they mature would negatively impact our liquidity. if we fail to successfully increase our reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will be adversely impacted. we own or have access to a finite amount of oil and gas reserves, which will be depleted over time. replacement of oil and gas production and reserves, including proved undeveloped reserves, is subject to successful exploration drilling, development activities, and enhanced recovery programs. therefore, future oil and gas production is dependent on technical success in finding and developing additional hydrocarbon reserves. exploration activity involves the interpretation of seismic and other geological and geophysical data, which does not always successfully predict the presence of commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. drilling risks include unexpected adverse conditions, irregularities in pressure or formations, equipment failure, blowouts and weather interruptions. future developments may be affected by unforeseen reservoir conditions, which negatively affect recovery factors or flow rates. reserve replacement can also be achieved through acquisition. similar risks, however, may be encountered in the production of oil and gas on properties acquired from others. in addition to the technical risks to reserve replacement, replacing reserves and developing future production is also influenced by the price of crude oil and natural gas and costs of drilling and development activities. lower crude oil and natural gas prices, may have the effect of reducing capital available for exploration and development activity and may render certain development projects uneconomic or delay their completion and may result in negative revisions to existing reserves while increasing drilling and development costs could negatively affect expected economic returns. there are inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and discounted future net cash flows, and actual quantities may be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues from those reserves. actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities of our proved reserves and the related future net revenues. in addition, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward changes based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, production sharing contracts, which may decrease reserves as crude oil and natural gas prices increase, and other factors. crude oil prices declined significantly in 2015 and to a lesser extent in 2016, relative to preceding years, resulting in reductions to our reported proved reserves. in contrast, crude oil prices improved somewhat in 2017 resulting in increases to our reported proved reserves. if crude oil prices in 2018 average below prices used to determine proved reserves at december 31, 2017, it could have an adverse effect on our estimates of proved reserve volumes and on the value of our business. see crude oil and natural gas reserves in critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we do not always control decisions made under joint operating agreements and the parties under such agreements may fail to meet their obligations. we conduct many of our e&amp;p operations through joint operating agreements with other parties under which we may not control decisions, either because we do not have a controlling interest or are not operator under the agreement. there is risk that these parties may at any time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that 14 are inconsistent with ours, and therefore decisions may be made which are n ot what we believe is in our best interest. moreover, parties to these agreements may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. in either case, the value of our investment may be adve rsely affected. we are subject to changing laws and regulations and other governmental actions that can significantly and adversely affect our business. federal, state, local, territorial and foreign laws and regulations relating to tax increases and retroactive tax claims, disallowance of tax credits and deductions, expropriation or nationalization of property, mandatory government participation, cancellation or amendment of contract rights, imposition of capital controls or blocking of funds, changes in import and export regulations, limitations on access to exploration and development opportunities, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, as well as other political developments may affect our operations. we have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas involves substantial costs, which may not be fully funded from operations. for example, in 2017, we had a significant net loss and, unless commodity prices are considerably higher through 2018, we are forecasting a net loss for 2018. two of the three major credit rating agencies that rate our debt have assigned an investment grade rating. although, currently we do not have any borrowings under our long-term credit facility, a ratings downgrade, continued weakness in the oil and gas industry or negative outcomes within commodity and financial markets could adversely impact our access to capital markets by increasing the costs of financing, or by impacting our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, or at all. in addition, a ratings downgrade may require that we issue letters of credit or provide other forms of collateral under certain contractual requirements. any inability to access capital markets could adversely impact our financial adaptability and our ability to execute our strategy and may also expose us to heightened exposure to credit risk. political instability in areas where we operate can adversely affect our business. some of the international areas in which we operate, and the partners with whom we operate, are politically less stable than other areas and partners and may be subject to civil unrest, conflict, insurgency, geographic territorial border disputes, corruption, security risks and labor unrest. political and civil unrest in north africa and the middle east has affected and may affect our operations in these areas as well as oil and gas markets generally. the threat of terrorism around the world also poses additional risks to the operations of the oil and gas industry. our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks and environmental laws and regulations that can result in significant costs and liabilities. our oil and gas operations, like those of the industry, are subject to environmental risks such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose us to substantial liability for pollution or other environmental damage. our operations are also subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. non compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial clean-ups and natural resource damages or other liabilities. in addition, increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general. similarly, we have material legal obligations to dismantle, remove and abandon production facilities and wells that will occur many years in the future, in most cases. these estimates may be impacted by future changes in regulations and other uncertainties. concerns have been raised in certain jurisdictions where we have operations concerning the safety and environmental impact of the drilling and development of shale oil and gas resources, particularly hydraulic fracturing, water usage, flaring of associated natural gas and air emissions. while we believe that these operations can be conducted safely and with minimal impact on the environment, regulatory bodies are responding to these concerns and may impose moratoriums and new regulations on such drilling operations that would likely have the effect of prohibiting or delaying such operations and increasing their cost. climate change initiatives may result in significant operational changes and expenditures, reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our business. we recognize that climate change is a global environmental concern. continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional or local legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. these agreements and measures may require, or could result in future legislation and regulatory measures that require, significant equipment modifications, operational changes, taxes, or purchase of emission credits to reduce emission of greenhouse gases from our operations, which may result in substantial capital expenditures and compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs. in addition, our production is sold to third parties that produce petroleum fuels, which through normal end user consumption result in the emission of greenhouse gases. regulatory initiatives to reduce the use of these fuels may reduce demand for crude oil and other hydrocarbons and have an adverse effect on our sales volumes, revenues and margins. the imposition and enforcement of stringent greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets could severely and adversely impact the oil and gas industry and significantly reduce the value of our business. furthermore, increasing attention to climate change risks has resulted in increased likelihood of governmental investigations and private litigation, which could increase 15 our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. for example, in 2017 certain municipalities in california separately filed lawsuits against over 30 fossil fuel producers, including us, for alleged damages purportedly caused by climate change. our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have. the petroleum industry is highly competitive and very capital intensive. we encounter competition from numerous companies in each of our activities, including acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas. to a lesser extent, we are also in competition with producers of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, including wind, solar and electric power, and in the future could face increasing competition due to the development and adoption of new technologies. many competitors, including national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources. increased competition for worldwide oil and gas assets could significantly increase the cost of acquiring oil and gas assets. in addition, competition for drilling services, technical expertise and equipment may affect the availability of technical personnel and drilling rigs, resulting in increased capital and operating costs. catastrophic events, whether naturally occurring or man made, may materially affect our operations and financial conditions. our oil and gas operations are subject to unforeseen occurrences which have affected us from time to time and which may damage or destroy assets, interrupt operations and have other significant adverse effects. examples of catastrophic risks include hurricanes, fires, explosions, blowouts, pipeline interruptions and ruptures, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes or cyber attacks. we maintain insurance coverage against many, but not all, potential losses and liabilities in amounts we deem prudent, including for property and casualty losses. there can be no assurance that such insurance will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. moreover, some forms of insurance may be unavailable in the future or be available only on terms that are deemed economically unacceptable. significant time delays between the estimated and actual occurrence of critical events associated with development projects may result in material negative economic consequences. as part of our business, we are involved in large development projects, the completion of which may be delayed beyond what was originally planned. such examples include, but are not limited to, delays in receiving necessary approvals from project members or regulatory agencies, timely access to necessary equipment, availability of necessary personnel, construction delays, unfavorable weather conditions and equipment failures. this may lead to delays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events. these delays could impact our future results of operations and cash flows. departures of key members from our senior management team, and/or difficulty in recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of experienced technical personnel, could negatively impact our ability to deliver on our strategic goals. our future success depends upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team, who play an important role in developing and implementing our strategy. the departure of key members of senior management or an inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of experienced technical and professional personnel in the necessary locations may prevent us from executing our strategy in full or, in part, which could negatively impact our business. we are dependent on oilfield service companies for items including drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor. an inability or significant delay in securing these services, or a high cost thereof, may result in material negative economic consequences. the availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor will fluctuate over time given the cyclical nature of the e&amp;p industry. as a result, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining required services or could face an increase in cost. these consequences may impact our ability to run our operations and to deliver projects on time with the potential for material negative economic consequences. we manage commodity price and other risks through our risk management function but such activities may impede our ability to benefit from commodity price increases and can expose us to similar potential counterparty credit risk as impacts amounts due from the sale of hydrocarbons. we may enter into additional commodity price hedging arrangements to protect us from commodity price declines. these arrangements may, depending on the instruments used and the level of increases involved, limit any potential upside from commodity price increases. as with accounts receivable we may be exposed to potential economic loss should a counterparty be unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under the terms of a hedging agreement. in addition, we are exposed to risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values, and may engage in hedging activities to mitigate related volatility. one of our subsidiaries is the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, hess midstream partners lp. the responsibilities associated with being a general partner expose the us to a broader range of legal liabilities . our control of hess midstream partners lp bestows upon us additional fiduciary duties including, but not limited to, the obligations associated with managing potential conflicts of interests, additional reporting requirements from the securities and exchange commission and the provision of tax information to unit holders of hess midstream partners lp. these heightened duties expose us to additional potential for legal claims that may have a material negative economic impact on our shareholders. moreover, these increased duties may lead to an increase in compliance costs and may divert management resource from our other operations. 16 disruption, failure or cyber security breaches affecting or targeting computer, telecommunications systems, and infrastructure used by the company may materially impact our business and operations. computers and telecommunication systems are used to conduct our exploration, development and production activities and have become an integral part of our business. we use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicat e within our company and with outside business partners. technical system flaws, power loss, cyber security risks, including cyber or phishing-attacks, unauthorized access, malicious software, data privacy breaches by employees or others with authorized a ccess, ransomware, and other cyber security issues could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems and result in disruptions to our business operations or the access, disclosure or loss of our data and proprietary information. in addition, co mputers control oil and gas production, processing equipment, and distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market. a disruption, failure or a cyber breach of these operating systems, or of the networks and infrastructur e on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets, and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. as a result, a disruption, failure or a cyber breach of these operating systems, or of the networks and infrastructure on which they rely and any resulting investigation or remediation costs, litigation or regulatory action could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations, reputation and competitiveness. we routinely experience attempts by external parties to penetrate and attack our networks and systems. although such attempts to date have not resulted in any material breaches, disruptions, or loss of business-critical information, our systems and procedures for protecting against such attacks and mitigating such risks may prove to be insufficient in the future and such attacks could have an adverse impact on our business and operations, including da mage to our reputation and competitiveness, remediation costs, litigation or regulatory actions. in addition, as technologies evolve and these cyber security attacks become more sophisticated, we may incur significant costs to upgrade or enhance our secur ity measures to protect against such attacks and we may face difficulties in fully anticipating or implementing adequate preventive measures or mitigating potential harm.risk factors within this document. glossary throughout this report, the following company or industry specific terms and abbreviations are used: appraisal well an exploration well drilled to confirm the results of a discovery well, or a well that is used to determine the boundaries of a productive formation. bbl one stock tank barrel, which is 42 united states gallons liquid volume. barrel of oil equivalent or boe this reflects natural gas reserves converted on the basis of relative energy content of six mcf equals one barrel of oil equivalent (one mcf represents one thousand cubic feet). barrel of oil equivalence does not necessarily result in price equivalence, as the equivalent price of natural gas on a barrel of oil equivalent basis has been substantially lower than the corresponding price for crude oil over the recent past. boepd barrels of oil equivalent per day. bopd barrels of oil per day. condensate a mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in the gaseous phase at original reservoir temperature and pressure, but that when produced, is in the liquid phase at surface pressure and temperature. development well a well drilled within the proved area of an oil and/or natural gas reservoir with the intent of producing oil and/or natural gas from that area of the reservoir. dry hole or dry well an exploratory or development well that does not find oil or natural gas in commercial quantities. exploratory well a well drilled to find oil or natural gas in an unproved area or find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive by another reservoir. fractionation fractionation is the process by which the mixture of natural gas liquids that results from natural gas processing is separated into the ngl components, such as ethane, propane, butane, isobutane, and natural gasoline, prior to their sale to various petrochemical and industrial end users. fractionation is accomplished by controlling the temperature of the stream of mixed liquids in order to take advantage of the difference in boiling points of separate products. field an area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic condition. fpso floating production, storage, and offloading vessel. gross acreage acreage in which a working interest is held by the corporation. gross well a well in which a working interest is held by the corporation. mcf one thousand cubic feet of natural gas. mmcfd one thousand mcf of natural gas per day. net acreage or net wells the sum of the fractional working interests owned by us in gross acres or gross wells. ngls or natural gas liquids naturally occurring substances that are separated and produced by fractionating natural gas, including ethane, butane, isobutane, propane and natural gasoline. ngls do not sell at prices equivalent to crude oil. non-operated projects in which the corporation has a working interest but does not perform the role of operator. opec organization of petroleum exporting countries. operator the entity responsible for conducting and managing exploration, development, and/or production operations for an oil or gas project. participating interest reflects the proportion of exploration and production costs each party will bear or the proportion of production each party will receive, as set out in an operating agreement. production entitlement the share of gross production the corporation is entitled to receive under the terms of a production sharing contract. production sharing contract an agreement between a host government and the owners (or co-owners) of a well or field regarding the percentage of production each party will receive after the parties have recovered a specified amount of capital and operational expenses. 2 productive well a well that is capable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify commercial exploitation. proved properties properties with proved reserves. proved reserves in accordance with the securities and exchange commission regulations and practices recognized in the publication of the society of petroleum engineers entitled, standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserves information, those quantities of crude oil and condensate, ngls and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. the project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. proved developed reserves proved reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or for which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well. proved undeveloped reserves proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. unproved properties properties with no proved reserves. working interest an interest in an oil and gas property that provides the owner of the interest the right to drill for and produce oil and gas on the relevant acreage and requires the owner to pay a share of the costs of drilling and production operations. 3 part i items 1 and 2. business and properties hess corporation, incorporated in the state of delaware in 1920, is a global exploration and production (e&amp;p) company engaged in exploration, development, production, transportation, purchase and sale of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas with production operations located primarily in the united states (u.s.), denmark, the malaysia/thailand joint development area (jda) and malaysia. we conduct exploration activities primarily offshore guyana, suriname, canada and in the u.s. gulf of mexico. at the stabroek block (hess 30%), offshore guyana, we have participated in twelve significant discoveries. the liza phase 1 development was sanctioned in 2017 and is expected to startup in early 2020 with production reaching up to 120,000 gross bopd . the discovered resources to date on the stabroek block are expected to underpin the potential for at least five fpsos producing more than 750,000 gross bopd by 2025. our midstream operating segment provides fee-based services, including gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating ngls; gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and ngls; storing and terminaling propane, and water handling services primarily in the bakken and three forks shale plays in the williston basin area of north dakota. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further details. exploration and production proved reserves proved reserves are calculated using the average price during the twelve-month period ending december 31 determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of each month within the year, unless prices are defined by contractual agreements, and exclude escalations based on future conditions. crude oil prices used in the determination of proved reserves at december 31, 2018 were $65.55 per barrel for west texas intermediate (wti) (2017: $51.19) and $72.08 per barrel for brent (2017: $54.87). our total proved developed and undeveloped reserves at december 31 were as follows: crude oil &amp; condensate natural gas liquids natural gas total barrels of oil equivalent (boe) 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 (millions of bbls) (millions of bbls) (millions of mcf) (millions of bbls) developed united states 266 239 85 87 432 526 423 414 europe 38 45 77 80 51 58 africa 111 112 115 117 130 132 asia and other 4 5 585 696 102 121 419 401 85 87 1,209 1,419 706 725 undeveloped united states 235 194 90 84 381 354 389 337 europe 1 4 1 12 1 6 africa 15 16 13 7 17 17 asia and other (a) 44 44 211 149 79 69 295 258 90 84 606 522 486 429 total united states 501 433 175 171 813 880 812 751 europe 39 49 78 92 52 64 africa 126 128 128 124 147 149 asia and other (a) 48 49 796 845 181 190 714 659 175 171 1,815 1,941 1,192 1,154 (a) asia and other includes proved undeveloped reserves in guyana of 42 million boe at december 31, 2018 (2017: 45 million boe). proved undeveloped reserves were 41% of our total proved reserves at december 31, 2018 on a boe basis (2017: 37%). proved reserves held under production sharing contracts totaled 7% of our crude oil reserves and 44% of our natural gas reserves at december 31, 2018 (2017: 7% and 44%, respectively). for additional information regarding our proved oil and gas reserves, see the supplementary oil and gas data to the consolidated financial statements presented on pages 82 through 92. 4 production worldwide crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas net production was as follows: 2018 2017 2016 crude oil - thousands of barrels united states bakken 27,663 24,439 24,881 other onshore (a) 389 2,053 3,209 total onshore 28,052 26,492 28,090 offshore 15,026 14,411 16,649 total united states 43,078 40,903 44,739 europe norway (a) 7,236 8,387 denmark 2,231 2,988 3,636 2,231 10,224 12,023 africa equatorial guinea (a) 9,201 11,898 libya 6,654 3,542 387 6,654 12,743 12,285 asia jda 546 586 616 malaysia 851 289 152 1,397 875 768 total 53,360 64,745 69,815 natural gas liquids - thousands of barrels united states bakken 10,767 10,107 9,701 other onshore (a) 1,647 2,972 4,205 total onshore 12,414 13,079 13,906 offshore 1,703 1,733 1,724 total united states 14,117 14,812 15,630 europe - norway (a) 340 408 total 14,117 15,152 16,038 natural gas - thousands of mcf united states bakken 25,625 22,621 22,312 other onshore (a) 16,167 33,478 48,597 total onshore 41,792 56,099 70,909 offshore 24,452 20,987 23,603 total united states 66,244 77,086 94,512 europe norway (a) 6,739 8,541 denmark 2,958 5,124 7,128 2,958 11,863 15,669 asia and other jda 68,477 73,444 68,031 malaysia (b) 59,995 27,225 13,151 other 4,288 132,760 100,669 81,182 total 201,962 189,618 191,363 total barrels of oil equivalent (in millions) (a) (b) 101 112 118 (a) in august 2018, the corporation sold its utica assets, onshore u.s. utica production averaged 9,000 boepd for calendar year 2018 (2017: 19,000 boepd; 2016: 29,000 boepd). in 2017, the corporation sold its assets in equatorial guinea (november), norway (december), and the permian, onshore u.s. (august). permian production averaged 4,000 boepd for calendar year 2017 (2016: 7,000 boepd). (b) includes 6,442 thousand mcf of production for 2018 (2017: 4,256 thousand mcf; 2016: 3,624 thousand mcf) from block pm301 which is unitized into block a-18 of the jda. 5 e&amp;p operations at december 31, 2018, our significant e&amp;p assets included the following: united states our production in the u.s. was from onshore properties, principally in the bakken oil shale play in the williston basin of north dakota (bakken) and from offshore properties in the gulf of mexico. onshore: bakken: at december 31, 2018, we held approximately 543,000 net acres in the bakken with varying working interest percentages. during 2018, we operated an average of 4.8 rigs, drilled 121 wells, completed 118 wells, and brought 104 wells on production, bringing the total operated production wells to 1,414 by year-end. during 2018, we transitioned from utilizing sliding sleeve completion designs to pl ug and perf completions. during 2019, we plan to operate six rigs, drill approximately 170 wells and bring approximately 160 wells on production. from 2019, all production wells will use plug and perf completions, which we expect will allow us to increase peak net production to approximately 200,000 boepd by 2021. w e forecast net production for full year 2019 to be in the range of 135,000 boepd to 145,000 boepd, compared to production of 117,000 boepd in 2018. offshore: gulf of mexico: at december 31, 2018, we held approximately 75,000 net developed acres, with our production operations principally at the baldpate (hess 50%), conger (hess 38%), hack wilson (hess 25%), llano (hess 50%), penn state (hess 50%), shenzi (hess 28%), stampede (hess 25%) and tub ular bells (hess 57%) fields. at december 31, 2018, we held approximately 270,000 net undeveloped acres, of which leases covering approximately 37,000 acres are due to expire in the next three years. production from the baldpate, conger, llano, and penn state fields were shut-in following a fire at the third-party operated enchilada platform in november 2017. in 2018, production restarted at the baldpate, llano, and penn state fields in the first quarter, and at the conger field in the third quarter. at the hess operated stampede field, production commenced in january 2018. in 2019, we plan to drill one production well and two water injection wells at the stampede field, one production well at the llano field, and one exploration well at the esox prospect which, if successful, can be tied back into production facilities at the tubular bells field. asia malaysia/thailand joint development area (jda) : at the carigali hess operated offshore block a-18 in the gulf of thailand ( hess 50% ), no drilling is planned for 2019 as contracted volumes are expected to be met from the booster compression project that came online in 2016. malaysia: our production in malaysia comes from our interest in block pm301 (hess 50%), which is adjacent to and is unitized with block a 18 of the jda and our 50% interest in block pm302 located in the north malay basin (nmb), offshore peninsular malaysia. production from full-field development commenced in july 2017. in 2019, we plan to continue the drilling program and development activities. europe denmark: production comes from our operated interest in the south arne field (hess 62%). in 2018, we decided to retain our interest in the field after offers received in a previously announced sale process did not meet our value expectations. during 2019, we plan to drill an exploration well on license 06/16, located approximately 19 miles from south arne. africa libya: at the onshore waha concession in libya, which includes the defa, faregh, gialo, north gialo and belhedan fields (hess 8%), net production averaged approximately 20,000 boepd in 2018, 10,000 boepd in 2017, and 1,000 boepd in 2016. production was shut-in by the operator for extended periods in 2016 due to force majeure caused by civil unrest. the company's net investment in libya was approximately $55 million at december 31, 2018. 6 other non-producing countries guyana: at the stabroek block (hess 30%), which covers approximately 6.6 million acres offshore guyana, the operator esso exploration and production guyana limited has made twelve significant discoveries to date. the first phase of the liza field development, which was sanctioned in 2017, is expected to begin producing oil by early 2020. phase 1 will use the liza destiny fpso to produce up to 120,000 gross bopd. drilling of development wells in the liza field is continuing, subsea equipment is being prepared for installation, and the topside facilities modules have been installed on the liza destiny fpso in singapore, which is expected to arrive offshore guyana in the third quarter of 2019. preparations are also underway for the installation of subsea umbilicals, risers and flowlines at the liza field in the spring of 2019. phase 2 of the liza field development is expected to start production by mid-2022. pending government and regulatory approvals, project sanction for phase 2 is expected by the operator in the first quarter of 2019 and will include a second fpso vessel designed to produce up to 220,000 gross bopd. project sanction for a third phase of development at the payara field is expected in 2019 with first production expected to start up as early as 2023. in addition to the first three phases, development planning is underway for additional fpsos. the ultimate sizing and timing will be a function of further exploration and appraisal drilling. the operator is currently utilizing three drillships on the block. the stena carron and the noble tom madden, which arrived in the third quarter of 2018, are involved in exploration and appraisal drilling. the noble bob douglas is drilling development wells for liza phase 1. in 2018, the following explorations wells were drilled on the stabroek block (in chronological order): ranger-1: the well, located approximately 60 miles northwest of the liza discovery, encountered approximately 230 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing carbonate reservoir. pacora-1 : the well encountered approximately 65 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoir, and is located approximately four miles west of the payara-1 well, which was drilled in 2017. the operator plans to integrate this discovery into the payara field development. liza-5: the well encountered 77 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoir and is located approximately six miles northwest of the liza-1 well, which was drilled in 2016. sorubim-1: the well did not encounter commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. longtail-1 : the well encountered approximately 256 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoir and is located approximately five miles west of the turbot-1 well, which was drilled in 2017. hammerhead-1: the well encountered approximately 197 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoir and is located approximately 13 miles to the southwest of the liza-1 well. pluma-1: the well encountered approximately 121 feet of high-quality, hydrocarbon-bearing sandstone reservoir and represents the tenth discovery on the block. the well is located approximately 17 miles south of the turbot-1 well. in february 2019, the operator announced the eleventh and twelfth discoveries on the stabroek block at the tilapia-1 and haimara-1 wells. the tilapia-1 well encountered approximately 305 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoir, and is located approximately three miles west of the longtail-1 well. the haimara-1 well encountered approximately 207 feet of high-quality, gas condensate-bearing sandstone reservoir, and is located approximately 19 miles east of the pluma-1 well. in 2019, additional drilling is planned, including appraisal of the hammerhead, ranger and turbot discoveries, as well as a wider exploration program that will target additional prospects and play types on the block. in 2018, we acquired a participating interest in the kaieteur block (hess 15%), which is adjacent to the stabroek block. the operator, esso exploration and production guyana limited , expects to complete a 2d seismic shoot in 2019. suriname : we hold a 33% non-operated participating interest in block 42, offshore suriname. in 2018, the operator, kosmos energy ltd., completed drilling operations on the pontoenoe-1 exploration well. commercial quantities of hydrocarbons were not discovered and well results will be integrated into the ongoing evaluation for future exploration on the block. we also hold a 33% non-operated participating interest in block 59, offshore suriname, where the operator exxonmobil exploration and production suriname b.v. commenced a seismic program in 2018. canada: we hold a 50% participating interest in four exploration licenses offshore nova scotia. in 2018, the operator, bp canada, completed drilling of the aspy exploration well, which did not encounter commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. in january 2019, the partnership relinquished 50% of the nova scotia acreage in accordance with the license agreement timeline. the retained acreage of approximately 1.75 million gross acres remains under evaluation. we also hold a 25% participating interest in three bp canada operated exploration licenses offshore newfoundland. 7 sales commitments we have certain long-term contracts with fixed minimum sales volume commitments for natural gas and ngls production. at the jda in the gulf of thailand, we have annual minimum net sales commitments of approximately 80 billion cubic feet of natural gas per year through 2025 and approximately 40 billion cubic feet per year in 2026 and 2027. at the north malay basin development project offshore peninsular malaysia, we have annual net sales commitments of approximately 55 billion cubic feet per year through 2024. our estimated total volume of production subject to these sales commitments is approximately 950 billion cubic feet of natural gas. we also have ngls minimum delivery commitments, primarily in the bakken through 2023, of approximately 10 million barrels per year, or approximately 55 million barrels over the remaining life of the contracts. we have not experienced any significant constraints in satisfying the committed quantities required by our sales commitments, and we anticipate being able to meet future requirements from available proved and probable reserves and projected third-party supply. 8 selling prices and production costs the following table presents our average selling prices and average production costs: 2018 2017 2016 average selling prices (a) crude oil - per barrel (including hedging) united states onshore $ 56.90 $ 46.04 $ 36.92 offshore 62.02 47.34 37.47 total united states 58.69 46.50 37.13 europe (b) 70.08 55.03 43.33 africa 69.64 53.17 41.88 asia 70.42 56.99 42.98 worldwide 60.77 49.23 39.20 crude oil - per barrel (excluding hedging) united states onshore $ 60.64 $ 46.76 $ 36.92 offshore 65.73 48.15 37.47 total united states 62.41 47.25 37.13 europe (b) 70.08 55.14 43.33 africa 69.64 53.25 41.88 asia 70.42 56.99 42.98 worldwide 63.80 49.75 39.20 natural gas liquids - per barrel united states onshore $ 21.29 $ 17.67 $ 9.18 offshore 25.58 21.34 13.96 total united states 21.81 18.10 9.71 europe (b) 29.04 19.48 worldwide 21.81 18.35 9.95 natural gas - per mcf united states onshore $ 2.29 $ 1.96 $ 1.48 offshore 2.68 2.22 1.99 total united states 2.43 2.03 1.61 europe (b) 3.61 4.42 3.97 asia and other 5.07 4.27 5.31 worldwide 4.18 3.37 3.37 average production (lifting) costs per barrel of oil equivalent produced (c) united states onshore (d) $ 22.34 $ 19.64 $ 18.40 offshore 13.80 11.89 18.88 total united states 19.74 17.42 18.54 europe (b) 26.23 21.95 21.28 africa 4.42 14.40 20.53 asia and other 6.16 7.83 11.91 worldwide 15.73 16.07 18.29 (a) includes inter company transfers valued at approximate market prices, primarily onshore u.s., which include certain processing and distribution fees. (b) in 2017, we sold our assets in norway. see note 3, dispositions in the notes to consolidated financial statements. the average selling prices in norway for 2016 were $43.32 per barrel for crude oil (including hedging), $43.32 per barrel for crude oil (excluding hedging), $19.48 per barrel for ngls and $5.22 per mcf for natural gas. the average production (lifting) costs in norway were $24.70 per boe in 2016. (c) production (lifting) costs consist of amounts incurred to operate and maintain our producing oil and gas wells, related equipment and facilities and transportation costs, including midstream tariff expense. lifting costs do not include costs of finding and developing proved oil and gas reserves, production and severance taxes, or the costs of related general and administrative expenses, interest expense and income taxes. (d) includes midstream tariff expense of $13.69 per boe in 2018 (2017: $11.10 per boe; 2016: $9.24 per boe). 9 gross and net undeveloped acreage at december 31, 2018, gross and net undeveloped acreage amounted to: undeveloped acreage (a) gross net (in thousands) united states 436 383 south america 14,332 3,943 europe 169 91 africa 3,334 272 asia and other (b) 6,350 2,755 total (c) 24,621 7,444 (a) includes acreage held under production sharing contracts. (b) includes 5.1 million gross acres (2.1 million net acres) offshore canada. (c) at december 31, 2018, 26% of our net undeveloped acreage is scheduled to expire during the next three years pending results of exploration activities. in addition, we relinquished 1.75 million gross acres (0.9 million net acres) offshore nova scotia, canada in january 2019. gross and net developed acreage, and productive wells at december 31, 2018 gross and net developed acreage and productive wells amounted to: developed acreage applicable to productive wells (a) productive wells oil gas gross net gross net gross net (in thousands) united states 953 554 2,693 1,281 29 21 europe 23 14 19 12 africa 9,564 782 1,032 84 9 1 asia and other 452 226 118 60 total 10,992 1,576 3,744 1,377 156 82 (a) includes multiple completion wells (wells producing from different formations in the same bore hole) totaling 105 gross wells and 61 net wells. exploratory and development wells net exploratory and net development wells completed during the years ended december 31 were: net exploratory wells net development wells 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 productive wells united states 92 65 83 europe 1 1 asia and other 4 2 1 1 1 4 2 1 93 67 84 dry holes united states 1 africa (a) asia and other (b) 2 1 2 2 total 6 2 3 93 67 84 (a) in 2017, we expensed seven wells in our deepwater tano/cape three points block, offshore ghana, which were drilled in prior years. (b) in 2016, we expensed 18 wells relating to our equus natural gas project, offshore australia, which were drilled in prior years. number of wells in the process of being drilled at december 31, 2018, the number of wells in the process of drilling amounted to: gross net wells wells united states 112 35 asia and other 11 4 total 123 39 10 midstream the midstream operating segment provides fee-based services, including gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating ngls; gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and ngls; storing and terminaling propane, and water handling services primarily in the bakken and three forks shale plays in the williston basin area of north dakota. in july 2015, we sold a 50% interest in hess infrastructure partners lp (hip) to global infrastructure partners (gip) for net cash consideration of approximately $2.6 billion. in april 2017, hess midstream partners lp (the partnership ), sold 16,997,000 common units representing limited partner interests at a price of $23 per unit in an initial public offering (ipo) for net proceeds of $365.5 million, of which $350 million was distributed equally to hess corporation and gip. at december 31, 2018, hess corporation and gip each owned a direct 33.75% limited partner interest in the partnership and a 50% indirect ownership interest through hip in the partnership's general partner, which has a 2% economic interest in the partnership plus incentive distribution rights. the public unit holders own a 30.5% limited partner interest in the partnership. in turn, the partnership owns an approximate 20% controlling interest in the operating companies that comprise our midstream joint venture, while hip, the 50/50 joint venture between hess corporation and gip, owns the remaining 80%. the partnership, hip and its affiliates, and other minor water handling services wholly-owned by hess comprise the midstream operating segment, which currently generates substantially all of its revenues under long-term, fee-based agreements with our e&amp;p operating segment but intends to pursue additional throughput volumes from third-parties in the williston basin area. we operate the midstream assets under various operational and administrative services agreements. in december 2018, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with hip to sell hip our water handling business for $225 million in cash, subject to customary adjustments. the parties expect to execute definitive agreements and close the transaction in the first quarter of 2019, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals. at december 31, 2018, midstream assets included the following: natural gas gathering and compression: a natural gas gathering and compression system located primarily in mckenzie, williams and mountrail counties, north dakota connecting hess and third-party owned or operated wells to the tioga gas plant and third-party pipeline facilities. this gathering system consists of approximately 1,200 miles of high and low pressure natural gas and ngl gathering pipelines with a current capacity of up to approximately 370 mmcfd, including an aggregate compression capacity of approximately 190 mmcfd. the system also includes the hawkeye gas facility, which contributes approximately 50 mmcfd of the system's current compression capacity. crude oil gathering: a crude oil gathering system located primarily in mckenzie, williams and mountrail counties, north dakota, connecting hess and third-party owned or operated wells to the ramberg terminal facility, the tioga rail terminal and the johnson's corner header system. the crude oil gathering system consists of approximately 400 miles of crude oil gathering pipelines with a current capacity of up to approximately 160,000 bopd. the system also includes the hawkeye oil facility, which contributes approximately 75,000 bopd of the system's current capacity. tioga gas plant: a natural gas processing and fractionation plant located in tioga, north dakota, with a current processing capacity of approximately 250 mmcfd and fractionation capacity of approximately 60,000 boepd. little missouri 4: a natural gas processing plant under construction in mckenzie county, north dakota, with expected processing capacity of approximately 200 mmcfd. the operator, targa resources corp., estimates the plant will be in service in the second quarter of 2019. the partnership owns a 50% interest in little missouri 4 through a joint venture with targa resources corp. and will be entitled to half of the plant's processing capacity when completed. mentor storage terminal: a propane storage cavern and rail and truck loading and unloading facility located in mentor, minnesota, with approximately 330,000 boe of working storage capacity. ramberg terminal facility: a crude oil pipeline and truck receipt terminal located in williams county, north dakota with a delivery capacity of up to approximately 285,000 bopd of crude oil into an interconnecting pipeline for transportation to the tioga rail terminal and to multiple third-party pipelines and storage facilities. tioga rail terminal: a 140,000 bopd crude oil and 30,000 boepd ngl rail loading terminal in tioga, north dakota that is connected to the tioga gas plant, the ramberg terminal facility and our crude oil gathering system. crude oil rail cars: a total of 550 crude oil rail cars, which we operate as unit trains consisting of approximately 100 to 110 crude oil rail cars. these crude oil rail cars have been constructed to dot-117 standards. in 2018, hip sold all its remaining older specification crude oil rail cars. johnson's corner header system: a crude oil pipeline header system located in mckenzie county, north dakota that receives crude oil by pipeline from hess and third-parties and delivers crude oil to third-party interstate pipeline systems. the facility has a delivery capacity of approximately 100,000 bopd of crude oil. water assets: a produced water gathering system located primarily in mckenzie, williams and mountrail counties, north dakota, consisting of approximately 150 miles of water gathering pipelines. 11 competition and market conditions see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of competition and market conditions. other items emergency preparedness and response plans and procedures we have in place a series of business and asset-specific emergency preparedness, response and business continuity plans that detail procedures for rapid and effective emergency response and environmental mitigation activities. these plans are maintained, reviewed and updated as necessary to confirm their accuracy and suitability. where applicable, they are also reviewed and approved by the relevant host government authorities. responder training and drills are routinely held worldwide to assess and continually improve the effectiveness of our plans. our contractors, service providers, representatives from government agencies and, where applicable, joint venture partners participate in the drills to help ensure that emergency procedures are comprehensive and can be effectively implemented. to complement internal capabilities and to help ensure coverage for our global operations, we maintain membership contracts with a network of local, regional and global oil spill response and emergency response organizations. at the regional and global level, these organizations include clean gulf associates (cga), marine spill response corporation (msrc), marine well containment company (mwcc), wild well control (wwc), subsea well intervention service (swis) and oil spill response limited (osrl). cga and msrc are domestic spill response organizations and mwcc provides the equipment and personnel to contain underwater well control incidents in the gulf of mexico. wwc provides firefighting, well control and engineering services globally. osrl is a global response organization and is available, when needed, to assist us with any of our assets. in addition to owning response assets in their own right, the organization maintains business relationships that provide immediate access to additional critical response support services if required. osrl's response assets include nearly 300 recovery and storage vessels and barges, more than 250 skimmers, over 600,000 feet of boom, 9 capping stacks and significant quantities of dispersants and other ancillary equipment, including aircraft. in addition to external well control and oil spill response support, we have contracts with wildlife, environmental, meteorology, incident management, medical and security resources. if we were to engage these organizations to obtain additional critical response support services, we would fund such services and, where appropriate, seek reimbursement under our insurance coverage, as described below. in certain circumstances, we pursue and enter into mutual aid agreements with other companies and government cooperatives to receive and provide oil spill response equipment and personnel support. we maintain close associations with emergency response organizations through our representation on the executive committees of cga and msrc, as well as the board of directors of osrl. we continue to participate in several industry-wide task forces that are studying better ways to assess the risk of and prevent onshore and offshore incidents, access and control blowouts in subsea environments, and improve containment and recovery methods. the task forces are working closely with the oil and gas industry and international government agencies to implement improvements and increase the effectiveness of oil spill prevention, preparedness, response and recovery processes. insurance coverage and indemnification we maintain insurance coverage that includes coverage for physical damage to our property, third-party liability, workers' compensation and employers' liability, general liability, sudden and accidental pollution and other coverage. this insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limitations and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. the amount of insurance covering physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding atlantic named windstorm coverage for which we are self insured, varies by asset, based on the asset's estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss. in the case of a catastrophic event, first party coverage consists of two tiers of insurance. the first $400 million of coverage is provided through an industry mutual insurance group. above this $400 million threshold, insurance is carried which ranges in value up to $1.11 billion in total, depending on the asset coverage level, as described above. the insurance programs covering physical damage to our property exclude business interruption protection for our e&amp;p operations. additionally, we carry insurance that provides third-party coverage for general liability, and sudden and accidental pollution, up to $1.08 billion, which coverage under a standard joint operating arrangement would be reduced to our participating interest. our insurance policies renew at various dates each year. future insurance coverage could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions, or additional exclusions or limitations. in addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that are deemed economically acceptable. 12 generally, our drilling contracts (and most of our other offshore services contracts) provide for a mutual hold harmless indemnity structure whereby each party to the contract (the corporation and contractor) in demnifies the other party for injuries or damages to their personnel and property (and, often, those of its contractors/subcontractors) regardless of fault. variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross neg ligence and/or willful misconduct of a party. third party claims, on the other hand, are generally allocated on a fault basis. we are customarily responsible for, and indemnify the contractor against, all claims including those from third parties, to the extent attributable to pollution or contamination by substances originating from our reservoirs or other property and the contractor is responsible for and indemnifies us for all claims attributable to pollution emanating from the contractor's property. variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of a party. additionally, we are generally liable for all of our own losses and most third party claims associated with catastrophic losses such as damage to reservoirs, blowouts, cratering and loss of hole, regardless of cause, although exceptions for losses attributable to gross negligence and/or willful misconduct do exist. lastly some offshore services contracts include overall limitations of the contractor's liability equal to a fixed negotiated amount. variations may include exclusions of all contractual indemnities from the liability cap. under a standard joint operating agreement (joa), each party is liable for all claims arising under the joa, to the extent of its participating interest (operator or non-operator). variations include indemnity exclusions when the claim is based upon the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of the operator, in which case the operator is solely liable. the parties to the joa may continue to be jointly and severally liable for claims made by third-parties in some jurisdictions. further, under some production sharing contracts between a governmental entity and commercial parties, liability of the commercial parties to the government entity is joint and several. environmental compliance with various existing environmental and pollution control regulations imposed by federal, state, local and foreign governments is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations but increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general. we spent approximately $15 million in 2018 for environmental remediation. the level of other expenditures to comply with federal, state, local and foreign country environmental regulations is difficult to quantify as such costs are captured as mostly indistinguishable components of our capital expenditures and operating expenses. for further discussion of environmental matters see environment, health and safety in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . number of employees at december 31, 2018, we had 1,708 employees. website access to our reports we make available free of charge through our website at www.hess.com, our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission. the information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this report. our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the audit committee, compensation and management development committee, and corporate governance and nominating committee of the board of directors are available on our website and are also available free of charge upon request to investor relations at our principal executive office. we also file with the new york stock exchange (nyse) an annual certification that our chief executive officer is unaware of any violation of the nyse's corporate governance standards. 13 ite m 1a. r isk factors our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant risks, including the risk factors described below. these risk factors could negatively affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, and as a result, holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. it is possible that additional risks relating to our securities may be described in a prospectus supplement if we issue securities in the future. our business and operating results are highly dependent on the market prices of crude oil, ngls and natural gas, which can be very volatile. our estimated proved reserves, revenue, operating cash flows, operating margins, liquidity, financial condition and future earnings are highly dependent on the benchmark market prices of crude oil, ngls and natural gas, and our associated realized price differentials, which are volatile and influenced by numerous factors beyond our control. the major foreign oil producing countries, including members of opec, may exert considerable influence over the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products. their ability or inability to agree on a common policy on rates of production and other matters may have a significant impact on the oil markets. other factors include, but are not limited to: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil, ngls and natural gas, political conditions and events (including instability, changes in governments, armed conflict or economic sanctions) around the world and in particular in crude oil or natural gas producing regions, the cost of exploring for, developing and producing crude oil, ngls and natural gas, the price and availability of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, the effect of energy conservation and environmental protection efforts and overall economic conditions globally. the sentiment of commodities trading markets as well as other supply and demand factors may also influence the selling prices of crude oil, ngls and natural gas. average prices for 2018 were $64.90 per barrel for wti (2017: $50.85; 2016: $43.47) and $71.69 per barrel for brent (2017: $54.74; 2016: $45.13). in order to manage the potential volatility of cash flows and credit requirements, we maintain significant bank credit facilities. an inability to access, renew or replace such credit facilities or access other sources of funding as they mature would negatively impact our liquidity. if we fail to successfully increase our reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will be adversely impacted. we own or have access to a finite amount of oil and gas reserves, which will be depleted over time. replacement of oil and gas production and reserves, including proved undeveloped reserves, is subject to successful exploration drilling, development activities, and enhanced recovery programs. therefore, future oil and gas production is dependent on technical success in finding and developing additional hydrocarbon reserves. exploration activity involves the interpretation of seismic and other geological and geophysical data, which does not always successfully predict the presence of commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. drilling risks include unexpected adverse conditions, irregularities in pressure or formations, equipment failure, blowouts and weather interruptions. future developments may be affected by unforeseen reservoir conditions, which negatively affect recovery factors or flow rates. reserve replacement can also be achieved through acquisition. similar risks, however, may be encountered in the production of oil and gas on properties acquired from others. in addition to the technical risks to reserve replacement, replacing reserves and developing future production is also influenced by the price of crude oil and natural gas and costs of drilling and development activities. lower crude oil and natural gas prices, may have the effect of reducing capital available for exploration and development activity and may render certain development projects uneconomic or delay their completion and may result in negative revisions to existing reserves while increasing drilling and development costs could negatively affect expected economic returns. there are inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and discounted future net cash flows, and actual quantities may be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues from those reserves. actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities of our proved reserves and the related future net revenues. in addition, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward changes based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, production sharing contracts, which may decrease reserves as crude oil and natural gas prices increase, and other factors. crude oil prices declined in 2016, relative to preceding years, resulting in reductions to our reported proved reserves. in contrast, crude oil prices improved somewhat in 2017 and 2018 resulting in increases to our reported proved reserves. if crude oil prices in 2019 average below prices used to determine proved reserves at december 31, 2018, it could have an adverse effect on our estimates of proved reserve volumes and on the value of our business. see crude oil and natural gas reserves in critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we do not always control decisions made under joint operating agreements and the parties under such agreements may fail to meet their obligations. we conduct many of our e&amp;p operations through joint operating agreements with other parties under which we may not control decisions, either because we do not have a controlling interest or are not operator under the agreement. there is risk that these parties may at any time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and therefore decisions may be made which are not what we believe is in our best interest. moreover, 14 parties to these agreements may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. in either case, the value of our investment may be adversely af fected. we are subject to changing laws and regulations and other governmental actions that can significantly and adversely affect our business. federal, state, local, territorial and foreign laws and regulations relating to tax increases and retroactive tax claims, disallowance of tax credits and deductions, expropriation or nationalization of property, mandatory government participation, cancellation or amendment of contract rights, imposition of capital controls or blocking of funds, changes in import and export regulations, reduction of sulfur content in bunker fuel, the imposition of tariffs, limitations on access to exploration and development opportunities, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, as well as other political developments may affect our operations and financial results. we have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas involves substantial costs, which may not be fully funded from operations. two of the three major credit rating agencies that rate our debt have assigned an investment grade rating. although, currently we do not have any borrowings under our long-term credit facility, a ratings downgrade, continued weakness in the oil and gas industry or negative outcomes within commodity and financial markets could adversely impact our access to capital markets by increasing the costs of financing, or by impacting our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, or at all. in addition, a ratings downgrade may require that we issue letters of credit or provide other forms of collateral under certain contractual requirements. any inability to access capital markets could adversely impact our financial adaptability and our ability to execute our strategy and may also expose us to heightened exposure to credit risk. political instability in areas where we operate can adversely affect our business. some of the international areas in which we operate are politically less stable than other areas and may be subject to civil unrest, conflict, insurgency, corruption, security risks and labor unrest. political instability and civil unrest in north africa, south america and the middle east has affected and may continue to affect our interests in these areas as well as oil and gas markets generally. in addition, geographic territorial border disputes may affect our business in certain areas, such as the border dispute between guyana and venezuela over a portion of the stabroek block. political instability exposes our operations to increased risks, including increased difficulty in obtaining required permits and government approvals, enforcing our agreements in those jurisdictions and potential adverse actions by local government authorities. the threat of terrorism around the world also poses additional risks to the operations of the oil and gas industry. our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks and environmental laws and regulations that can result in significant costs and liabilities. our oil and gas operations, like those of the industry, are subject to environmental risks such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose us to substantial liability for pollution or other environmental damage. our operations are also subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. non compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial clean-ups and natural resource damages or other liabilities. in addition, increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general. similarly, we have material legal obligations to dismantle, remove and abandon production facilities and wells that will occur many years in the future, in most cases. these estimates may be impacted by future changes in regulations and other uncertainties. concerns have been raised in certain jurisdictions where we have operations concerning the safety and environmental impact of the drilling and development of shale oil and gas resources, particularly hydraulic fracturing, water usage, flaring of associated natural gas and air emissions. while we believe that these operations can be conducted safely and with minimal impact on the environment, regulatory bodies are responding to these concerns and may impose moratoriums and new regulations on such drilling operations that would likely have the effect of prohibiting or delaying such operations and increasing their cost. climate change initiatives may result in significant operational changes and expenditures, reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our business. we recognize that climate change is a global environmental concern. continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional or local legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. these agreements and measures may require, or could result in future legislation and regulatory measures that require, significant equipment modifications, operational changes, taxes, or purchase of emission credits to reduce emission of greenhouse gases from our operations, which may result in substantial capital expenditures and compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs. in addition, our production is sold to third parties that produce petroleum fuels, which through normal end user consumption result in the emission of greenhouse gases. regulatory initiatives to reduce the use of these fuels may reduce demand for crude oil and other hydrocarbons and have an adverse effect on our sales volumes, revenues and margins. the imposition and enforcement of stringent greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets could severely and adversely impact the oil and gas industry and significantly reduce the value of our business. furthermore, increasing attention to climate change risks has 15 resulted in governmental investigations, and public and private litigation, which could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. for example, in 2017 certain municipalities and private assoc iations in california, rhode island, and maryland separately filed lawsuits against over 30 fossil fuel producers, including us, for alleged damages purportedly caused by climate change. our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources and more diverse portfolios than we have. the petroleum industry is highly competitive and very capital intensive. we encounter competition from numerous companies, including acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas. to a lesser extent, we are also in competition with producers of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, including wind, solar and electric power, and in the future, could face increasing competition due to the development and adoption of new technologies. many competitors, including national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources to acquire and develop oil and gas assets. in addition, competition for drilling services, technical expertise and equipment may affect the availability of technical personnel and drilling rigs, resulting in increased capital and operating costs. many of our competitors have a more diverse portfolio of assets, which may minimize the impact of adverse events occurring at any one location. catastrophic events, whether naturally occurring or man made, may materially affect our operations and financial conditions. our oil and gas operations are subject to unforeseen occurrences which have affected us from time to time and which may damage or destroy assets, interrupt operations and have other significant adverse effects. examples of catastrophic events include hurricanes, fires, explosions, blowouts, pipeline interruptions and ruptures, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes or cyber attacks. we maintain insurance coverage against many, but not all, potential losses and liabilities in amounts we deem prudent, including for property and casualty losses. there can be no assurance that such insurance will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. moreover, some forms of insurance may be unavailable in the future or be available only on terms that are deemed economically unacceptable. significant time delays between the estimated and actual occurrence of critical events associated with development projects may result in material negative economic consequences. as part of our business, we are involved in large development projects, the completion of which may be delayed beyond what was originally planned. such examples include, but are not limited to, delays in receiving necessary approvals from project members or regulatory agencies, timely access to necessary equipment, availability of necessary personnel, construction delays, unfavorable weather conditions and equipment failures. this may lead to delays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events. these delays could impact our future results of operations and cash flows. departures of key members from our senior management team, and/or difficulty in recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of experienced technical personnel, could negatively impact our ability to deliver on our strategic goals. our future success depends upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team, who play an important role in developing and implementing our strategy. the departure of key members of senior management or an inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of experienced technical and professional personnel in the necessary locations may prevent us from executing our strategy in full or, in part, which could negatively impact our business. we are dependent on oilfield service companies for items including drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor. an inability or significant delay in securing these services, or a high cost thereof, may result in material negative economic consequences. the availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor will fluctuate over time given the cyclical nature of the e&amp;p industry. as a result, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining required services or could face an increase in cost. these consequences may impact our ability to run our operations and to deliver projects on time with the potential for material negative economic consequences. we manage commodity price and other risks through our risk management function but such activities may impede our ability to benefit from commodity price increases and can expose us to similar potential counterparty credit risk as amounts due from the sale of hydrocarbons. we may enter into additional commodity price hedging arrangements to protect us from commodity price declines. these arrangements may, depending on the instruments used and the level of additional hedges involved, limit any potential upside from commodity price increases. as with accounts receivable from the sale of hydrocarbons, we may be exposed to potential economic loss should a counterparty be unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under the terms of a hedging agreement. in addition, we are exposed to risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values, and may engage in hedging activities to mitigate related volatility. one of our subsidiaries is the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, hess midstream partners lp. the responsibilities associated with being a general partner expose us to a broader range of legal liabilities . our control of hess midstream partners lp bestows upon us additional fiduciary duties including, but not limited to, the obligations associated with managing potential conflicts of interests, additional reporting requirements from the securities and exchange commission and the provision of tax information to unit holders of hess midstream partners lp. these heightened 16 duties expose us to additional potential for legal claims that may have a material negative economic impact on our shareholders. moreover, these increased duties may lead to an increase in compliance costs. disruption, failure or cyber security breaches affecting or targeting computer, telecommunications systems, and infrastructure used by the company may materially impact our business and operations. computers and telecommunication systems are used to conduct our exploration, development and production activities and have become an integral part of our business. we use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicate within our company and with outside business partners. technical system flaws, power loss, cyber security risks, including cyber or phishing-attacks, unauthorized access, malicious software, data privacy breaches by employees or others with authorized access, ransomware, and other cyber security issues could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems and result in disruptions to our business operations or the access, disclosure or loss of our data and proprietary information. in addition, computers control oil and gas production, processing equipment, and distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market. a disruption, failure or a cyber breach of these operating systems, or of the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets, and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. as a result, a disruption, failure or a cyber breach of these operating systems, or of the networks and infrastructure on which they rely and any resulting investigation or remediation costs, litigation or regulatory action could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations, reputation and competitiveness. we routinely experience attempts by external parties to penetrate and attack our networks and systems. although such attempts to date have not resulted in any material breaches, disruptions, financial loss, or loss of business-critical information, our systems and procedures for protecting against such attacks and mitigating such risks may prove to be insufficient in the future and such attacks could have an adverse impact on our business and operations, including damage to our reputation and competitiveness, remediation costs, litigation or regulatory actions. in addition, as technologies evolve and these cyber security attacks become more sophisticated, we may incur significant costs to upgrade or enhance our security measures to protect against such attacks and we may face difficulties in fully anticipating or implementing adequate preventive measures or mitigating potential harm.risk factors for a discussion of competition and market conditions. other items emergency preparedness and response plans and procedures we have in place a series of business and asset-specific emergency preparedness, response and business continuity plans that detail procedures for rapid and effective emergency response and environmental mitigation activities. these plans are maintained, reviewed and updated as necessary to confirm their accuracy and suitability. where applicable, they are also reviewed and approved by the relevant host government authorities. responder training and drills are routinely held worldwide to assess and continually improve the effectiveness of our plans. our contractors, service providers, representatives from government agencies and, where applicable, joint venture partners participate in the drills to help ensure that emergency procedures are comprehensive and can be effectively implemented. to complement internal capabilities and to help ensure coverage for our global operations, we maintain membership contracts with a network of local, regional and global oil spill response and emergency response organizations. at the regional and global level, these organizations include clean gulf associates (cga), marine spill response corporation (msrc), marine well containment company (mwcc), wild well control (wwc) and oil spill response limited (osrl). cga and msrc are domestic spill response organizations and mwcc provides the equipment and personnel to contain underwater well control incidents in the gulf of mexico. 14 wwc provides firefighting, well control and engineering services globally. osrl is a global response organization and is available, when needed, to assist us with any of our assets. in addition to owning response assets in their own right, the organization maintains business relationships that provide immediate access to additional critical response support services if required. osrl's response assets include nearly 300 recovery and storage vessels and barges, more than 250 skimmers, over 600,000 feet of boom, 9 capping stacks and significant quantities of dispersants and other ancillary equipment, including aircraft. in addition to external well control and oil spill response support, we have contracts with wildlife, environmental, meteorology, incident management, medical and security resources. if we were to engage these organizations to obtain additional critical response support services, we would fund such services and, where appropriate, seek reimbursement under our insurance coverage, as described below. in certain circumstances, we pursue and enter into mutual aid agreements with other companies and government cooperatives to receive and provide oil spill response equipment and personnel support. we maintain close associations with emergency response organizations through our representation on the executive committees of cga and msrc, as well as the board of directors of osrl. we continue to participate in several industry-wide task forces that are studying better ways to assess the risk of and prevent onshore and offshore incidents, access and control blowouts in subsea environments, and improve containment and recovery methods. the task forces are working closely with the oil and gas industry and international government agencies to implement improvements and increase the effectiveness of oil spill prevention, preparedness, response and recovery processes. insurance coverage and indemnification we maintain insurance coverage that includes coverage for physical damage to our property, third-party liability, workers' compensation and employers' liability, general liability, sudden and accidental pollution and other coverage. this insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limitations and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. the amount of insurance covering physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding atlantic named windstorm coverage for which we are self insured, varies by asset, based on the asset's estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss. in the case of a catastrophic event, first party coverage consists of two tiers of insurance. the first $400 million of coverage is provided through an industry mutual insurance group. above this $400 million threshold, insurance is carried which ranges in value up to $1.31 billion in total, depending on the asset coverage level, as described above. the insurance programs covering physical damage to our property exclude business interruption protection for our e p operations. additionally, we carry insurance that provides third-party coverage for general liability, and sudden and accidental pollution, up to $1.08 billion, which coverage under a standard joint operating arrangement would be reduced to our participating interest. our insurance policies renew at various dates each year. future insurance coverage could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions, or additional exclusions or limitations. in addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that are deemed economically acceptable. generally, our drilling contracts (and most of our other offshore services contracts) provide for a mutual hold harmless indemnity structure whereby each party to the contract (the corporation and contractor) indemnifies the other party for injuries or damages to their personnel and property (and, often, those of its contractors/subcontractors) regardless of fault. variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of a party. third party claims, on the other hand, are generally allocated on a fault basis. we are customarily responsible for, and indemnify the contractor against, all claims including those from third parties, to the extent attributable to pollution or contamination by substances originating from our reservoirs or other property and the contractor is responsible for and indemnifies us for all claims attributable to pollution emanating from the contractor's property. variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of a party. additionally, we are generally liable for all of our own losses and most third party claims associated with catastrophic losses such as damage to reservoirs, blowouts, cratering and loss of hole, regardless of cause, although exceptions for losses attributable to gross negligence and/or willful misconduct do exist. lastly some offshore services contracts include overall limitations of the contractor's liability equal to a fixed negotiated amount. variations may include exclusions of all contractual indemnities from the liability cap. under a standard joint operating agreement (joa), each party is liable for all claims arising under the joa, to the extent of its participating interest (operator or non-operator). variations include indemnity exclusions when the claim is based upon the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of the operator, in which case the operator is solely liable. the parties to the joa may continue to be jointly and severally liable for claims made by third parties in some jurisdictions. further, under some production sharing contracts between a governmental entity and commercial parties, liability of the commercial parties to the government entity is joint and several. 15 environmental compliance with various existing environmental and pollution control regulations imposed by federal, state, local and foreign governments is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations but increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general. we spent approximately $20 million in 2019 for environmental remediation. the level of other expenditures to comply with federal, state, local and foreign country environmental regulations is difficult to quantify as such costs are captured as mostly indistinguishable components of our capital expenditures and operating expenses. for further discussion of environmental matters see environment, health and safety in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . information about our executive officers the following table presents information as of february 20, 2020 regarding executive officers of the corporation: name age office held* and business experience year individual became an executive officer john b. hess 65 chief executive officer and director 1983 mr. hess has been chief executive officer of the corporation since 1995 and employed by the corporation since 1977. he has over 40 years of experience in the oil and gas industry. gregory p. hill 58 president and chief operating officer 2009 mr. hill has been chief operating officer since 2014 and president of the corporation's worldwide exploration and production business since joining the corporation in january 2009. prior to joining the corporation, mr. hill spent 25 years at royal dutch shell and its affiliates in a variety of operations, engineering, technical and managerial roles in asia-pacific, europe and the united states. timothy b. goodell 62 senior vice president, general counsel, corporate secretary and chief 2009 compliance officer mr. goodell has been the senior vice president and general counsel of the corporation since 2009, corporate secretary since 2016 and chief compliance officer since 2017. prior to joining the corporation in 2009, he was a partner at the law firm of white case, llp where he spent 25 years. john p. rielly 57 senior vice president and chief financial officer 2002 mr. rielly has been the senior vice president and chief financial officer of the corporation since 2004. mr. rielly previously served as vice president and controller of the corporation from 2001 to 2004. prior to joining the corporation in 2001, he was a partner at ernst young, llp where he was employed for 17 years. richard lynch 62 senior vice president, technology and services 2018 mr. lynch has been senior vice president, technology and services of the corporation since 2018. mr. lynch previously was senior vice president global developments, drilling and completions from 2014. prior to joining the corporation in 2014, mr. lynch spent over 30 years in well delivery and operations, as well as project and asset management, with bp plc and arco. gerbert schoonman 54 senior vice president, global production 2020 mr. schoonman has been senior vice president, global production of the corporation since january 2020. since joining the company in 2011, he served in various operational leadership roles, including as vice president, production asia pacific, from january 2011 through august 2012 vice president, onshore bakken from september 2012 through december 2016 and most recently, as vice president, offshore since january 2017. prior to joining the corporation, he spent 20 years with royal dutch shell where he served in operational and leadership roles. 16 name age office held* and business experience year individual became an executive officer andrew slentz 58 senior vice president, human resources and office management 2016 mr. slentz has been senior vice president, human resources of the corporation since april 2016 and responsible for office management since 2018. prior to joining the corporation in 2016, mr. slentz served as executive vice president of administration and human resources at peabody energy since 2010. mr. slentz has over 25 years in human resources experience at large international public companies. michael r. turner 60 senior vice president 2014 mr. turner has been senior vice president of the corporation since january 2020. he previously served as senior vice president, global production from january 2017 until december 2019 and senior vice president, onshore from june 2009 to december 2016. prior to joining the corporation in 2009, mr. turner spent 28 years with royal dutch shell and its affiliates in a variety of production leadership positions around the world. mr. turner will retire from the corporation effective april 3, 2020. barbara lowery-yilmaz 63 senior vice president, exploration 2014 ms. lowery-yilmaz has been the senior vice president, exploration of the corporation since august 2014. ms. lowery-yilmaz has over 30 years of oil and gas industry experience in exploration and technology with bp plc and its affiliates including senior leadership roles. * all officers referred to herein hold office in accordance with the by-laws until the first meeting of directors in connection with the annual meeting of stockholders of the registrant and until their successors shall have been duly chosen and qualified. each of said officers was elected to the office opposite their name on june 4, 2019 except mr. schoonman who was elected effective january 1, 2020. except for mr. slentz, each of the above officers has been employed by the corporation or its affiliates in various managerial and executive capacities for more than five years. prior to joining the corporation, mr. slentz served in senior executive positions in human resources at peabody energy and its affiliates. number of employees at december 31, 2019, we had 1,775 employees. website access to our reports we make available free of charge through our website, www.hess.com, our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission. the information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this report. our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the audit committee, compensation and management development committee, corporate governance and nominating committee and environmental, health and safety committee of the board of directors are available on our website and are also available free of charge upon request to investor relations at our principal executive office. we also file with the new york stock exchange (nyse) an annual certification that our chief executive officer is unaware of any violation of the nyse's corporate governance standards. 17 item 1a. risk factors our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant risks, including the risk factors described below. these risk factors could negatively affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, and as a result, holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. it is possible that additional risks relating to our securities may be described in a prospectus supplement if we issue securities in the future. our business and operating results are highly dependent on the market prices of crude oil, ngl and natural gas, which can be very volatile. our estimated proved reserves, revenue, operating cash flows, operating margins, liquidity, financial condition and future earnings are highly dependent on the benchmark market prices of crude oil, ngl and natural gas, and our associated realized price differentials, which are volatile and influenced by numerous factors beyond our control. the major foreign oil producing countries, including members of opec, may exert considerable influence over the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products. their ability to agree on a common policy on rates of production and other matters may have a significant impact on the oil markets. other factors include, but are not limited to: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil, ngl and natural gas, political conditions and events (including instability, changes in governments, armed conflict, economic sanctions and outbreaks of infectious diseases) around the world and in particular in crude oil or natural gas producing regions, the cost of exploring for, developing and producing crude oil, ngl and natural gas, the price and availability of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, the effect of energy conservation and environmental protection efforts and overall economic conditions globally. the sentiment of commodities trading markets as well as other supply and demand factors may also influence the selling prices of crude oil, ngl and natural gas. average benchmark prices for 2019 were $57.04 per barrel for wti (2018: $64.90 2017: $50.85) and $64.16 per barrel for brent (2018: $71.69 2017: $54.74). in order to manage the potential volatility of cash flows and credit requirements, we maintain significant bank credit facilities. an inability to access, renew or replace such credit facilities or access other sources of funding as they mature would negatively impact our liquidity. furthermore, from time to time we have entered into, and may in the future, enter into or modify commodity price hedging arrangements to manage commodity price volatility. these arrangements may limit potential upside from commodity price increases, or expose us to additional risks, such as counterparty credit risk, which could adversely impact our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. if we fail to successfully increase our reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will be adversely impacted. we own or have access to a finite amount of oil and gas reserves, which will be depleted over time. replacement of oil and gas production and reserves, including proved undeveloped reserves, is subject to successful exploration drilling, development activities, and enhanced recovery programs. therefore, future oil and gas production is dependent on technical success in finding and developing additional hydrocarbon reserves. exploration activity involves the interpretation of seismic and other geological and geophysical data, which does not always successfully predict the presence of commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. drilling risks include unexpected adverse conditions, irregularities in pressure or formations, equipment failure, blowouts and weather interruptions. future developments may be affected by unforeseen reservoir conditions, which negatively affect recovery factors or flow rates. similar risks may be encountered in the production of oil and gas on properties acquired from others. in addition, replacing reserves and developing future production are also influenced by the price of crude oil and natural gas and costs of drilling and development activities. lower crude oil and natural gas prices may reduce capital available for our exploration and development activities, render certain development projects uneconomic or delay their completion, and result in negative revisions to existing reserves while increasing drilling and development costs could negatively affect expected economic returns. there are inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and discounted future net cash flows, and actual quantities may be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues from those reserves. actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities of our proved reserves and the related future net revenues. in addition, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward changes based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, production sharing contracts, which may decrease reserves as crude oil and natural gas prices increase, and other factors. crude oil prices declined in 2019, relative to 2018, resulting in reductions to our reported proved reserves. in contrast, crude oil prices improved in 2017 and 2018, relative to preceding years, resulting in increases to our reported proved reserves. if crude oil prices in 2020 average below prices used to determine proved reserves at december 31, 2019, it could have an adverse effect on our estimates of proved reserve volumes and on the value of our business. see crude oil and natural gas reserves in critical accounting policies and estimates in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 18 catastrophic and other events, whether naturally occurring or man made, may materially affect our operations and financial condition. our oil and gas operations are subject to numerous risks and hazards inherent to operating in the crude oil and natural gas industry, including catastrophic events, which may damage or destroy assets, interrupt operations, result in personal injury and have other significant adverse effects. these events include unexpected drilling conditions, pressure conditions or irregularities in reservoir formations, equipment malfunctions or failures, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pipeline interruptions and ruptures, hurricanes, severe weather, geological events, shortages in availability of skilled labor or cyber attacks. we maintain insurance coverage against many, but not all, potential losses and liabilities in amounts we deem prudent, including for property and casualty losses. there can be no assurance that such insurance will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. moreover, some forms of insurance may be unavailable in the future or be available only on terms that are deemed economically unacceptable. we do not always control decisions made under joint operating agreements and the parties under such agreements may fail to meet their obligations. we conduct many of our e p operations through joint operating agreements with other parties under which we may not control decisions, either because we do not have a controlling interest or are not operator under the agreement. there is risk that these parties may at any time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and therefore decisions may be made which are not what we believe is in our best interest. moreover, parties to these agreements may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. in either case, the value of our investment may be adversely affected. we are subject to changing laws and regulations and other governmental actions that can significantly and adversely affect our business. political or regulatory developments and governmental actions, including federal, state, local, territorial and foreign laws and regulations relating to tax increases and retroactive tax claims, disallowance of tax credits and deductions expropriation or nationalization of property mandatory government participation, cancellation or amendment of contract rights imposition of capital controls or blocking of funds changes in import and export regulations reduction of sulfur content in bunker fuel the imposition of tariffs, limitations on access to exploration and development opportunities prohibition on hydraulic fracturing of wells and anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, may adversely affect our operations and those of our counterparties with whom we have contracted, which may affect our financial results. we have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas involve substantial costs, which may not be fully funded from operations. two of the three major credit rating agencies that rate our debt have assigned an investment grade rating. although, currently we do not have any borrowings under our long-term credit facility, a ratings downgrade, continued weakness in the oil and gas industry or negative outcomes within commodity and financial markets could adversely impact our access to capital markets by increasing the costs of financing, or by impacting our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms. in addition, a ratings downgrade may require that we issue letters of credit or provide other forms of collateral under certain contractual requirements. any inability to access capital markets could adversely impact our financial adaptability and our ability to execute our strategy and may also expose us to heightened exposure to credit risk. in addition, borrowings on credit facilities may use libor as a benchmark for establishing the rate. libor is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. these reforms and other pressures may cause libor to be discontinued or to perform differently than in the past. the consequences of these developments cannot be entirely predicted, but could include fluctuations in interest rates or an increase in the cost of credit facility borrowings. political instability in areas where we operate can adversely affect our business. some of the international areas in which we operate are politically less stable than other areas and may be subject to civil unrest, conflict, insurgency, corruption, security risks and labor unrest. political instability and civil unrest in north africa, south america and the middle east has affected and may continue to affect our interests in these areas as well as oil and gas markets generally. in addition, geographic territorial border disputes may affect our business in certain areas, such as the border dispute between guyana and venezuela over a portion of the stabroek block. political instability exposes our operations to increased risks, including increased difficulty in obtaining required permits and government approvals, enforcing our agreements in those jurisdictions and potential adverse actions by local government authorities. the threat of terrorism around the world also poses additional risks to our operations and the operations of the oil and gas industry in general. our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks and environmental laws and regulations that can result in significant costs and liabilities. our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose us to substantial liability for pollution or other environmental damage. our operations are also subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. non compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial clean-ups, natural resource damages and other liabilities. in addition, increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us. similarly, we have material legal obligations to dismantle, remove and abandon production facilities and wells that will 19 occur many years in the future, in most cases. these estimates may be impacted by future changes in regulations and other uncertainties. concerns have been raised in certain jurisdictions where we have operations concerning the safety and environmental impact of the drilling and development of shale oil and gas resources, particularly hydraulic fracturing, water usage, flaring of associated natural gas and air emissions. while we believe that these operations can be conducted safely and with minimal impact on the environment, regulatory bodies are responding to these concerns and may impose moratoriums and new regulations on such drilling operations that would likely have the effect of prohibiting or delaying such operations and increasing their cost. climate change and sustainability initiatives may result in significant operational changes and expenditures, reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our business. we recognize that climate change and sustainability is a growing global environmental concern. continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change and sustainability has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional or local legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. these agreements and measures may require, or could result in future legislation and regulatory measures that require, significant equipment modifications, operational changes, taxes, or purchase of emission credits to reduce emission of greenhouse gases from our operations, which may result in substantial capital expenditures and compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs. in addition, our production is sold to third parties that produce petroleum fuels, which through normal end user consumption result in the emission of greenhouse gases. as a result of heightened public awareness and attention to climate change and sustainability as well as continued regulatory initiatives to reduce the use of these fuels, demand for crude oil and other hydrocarbons may be reduced, which may have an adverse effect on our sales volumes, revenues and margins. the imposition and enforcement of stringent greenhouse gas emissions reduction requirements could severely and adversely impact the oil and gas industry and therefore significantly reduce the value of our business. in addition, certain financial institutions, institutional investors and other sources of capital have begun to limit or eliminate their investment in oil and gas activities due to concerns about climate change, which could make it more difficult to finance our business. furthermore, increasing attention to climate change risks and sustainability has resulted in governmental investigations, and public and private litigation, which could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. for example, in 2017 certain municipalities and private associations in california, rhode island, and maryland separately filed lawsuits against over 30 fossil fuel producers, including us, for alleged damages purportedly caused by climate change. our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources and more diverse portfolios than we have. the petroleum industry is highly competitive and very capital intensive. we encounter competition from numerous companies, including acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas. to a lesser extent, we are also in competition with producers of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, including wind, solar and electric power, and in the future, could face increasing competition due to the development and adoption of new technologies. many competitors, including national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources to acquire and develop oil and gas assets. in addition, competition for drilling services, technical expertise and equipment may affect the availability of technical personnel and drilling rigs, resulting in increased capital and operating costs. many of our competitors have a more diverse portfolio of assets, which may minimize the impact of adverse events occurring at any one location. significant time delays between the estimated and actual occurrence of critical events associated with development projects may result in material negative economic consequences. as part of our business, we are involved in large development projects, the completion of which may be delayed beyond what was originally planned. such examples include, but are not limited to, delays in receiving necessary approvals from project members or regulatory or other government agencies, timely access to necessary equipment, availability of necessary personnel, construction delays, unfavorable weather conditions, equipment failures, and outbreaks of infectious diseases. these delays could impact our future results of operations and cash flows. departures of key members from our senior management team, and/or difficulty in recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of experienced technical personnel, could negatively impact our ability to deliver on our strategic goals. our future success depends upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team, who play an important role in developing and implementing our strategy. the departure of key members of senior management or an inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of experienced technical and professional personnel in the necessary locations may prevent us from executing our strategy in full or, in part, which could negatively impact our business. we are dependent on oilfield service companies for items including drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor. an inability or significant delay in securing these services, or a high cost thereof, may result in material negative economic consequences. the availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor will fluctuate over time given the cyclical nature of the e p industry. as a result, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining required services or 20 could face an increase in cost, which may impact our ability to run our operations and deliver projects on time with the potential for material negative economic consequences. we engage in risk management transactions designed to mitigate commodity price volatility and other risks but such activities may impede our ability to benefit from commodity price increases and can expose us to similar potential counterparty credit risk as amounts due from the sale of hydrocarbons. we may enter into commodity price hedging arrangements to protect us from commodity price declines. these arrangements may, depending on the instruments used and the level of additional hedges involved, limit any potential upside from commodity price increases. as with accounts receivable from the sale of hydrocarbons, we may be exposed to potential economic loss should a counterparty be unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under the terms of a hedging agreement. in addition, we are exposed to risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values, and may engage in hedging activities to mitigate related volatility. one of our subsidiaries is the general partner of a publicly traded limited partnership, hess midstream lp. the responsibilities associated with being a general partner expose us to a broader range of legal liabilities . our control of hess midstream lp bestows upon us additional duties and obligations including, but not limited to, the obligations associated with managing potential conflicts of interests and additional reporting requirements from the securities and exchange commission. these heightened duties expose us to additional potential for legal claims that may have a material negative economic impact on our shareholders. moreover, these increased duties may lead to an increase in compliance costs. disruption, failure or cyber security breaches affecting or targeting computer, telecommunications systems, and infrastructure used by the corporation or our business partners may materially impact our business and operations. computers and telecommunication systems are an integral part of our exploration, development and production activities and the activities of our business partners. we use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicate within our corporation and with outside business partners. technical system flaws, power loss, cyber security risks, including cyber or phishing-attacks, unauthorized access, malicious software, data privacy breaches by employees or others with authorized access, ransomware, and other cyber security issues could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems or those of our business partners and result in disruptions to our business operations or the access, disclosure or loss of our data and proprietary information. in addition, computers control oil and gas production, processing equipment, and distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market. a disruption, failure or a cyber breach of these operating systems, or of the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets, and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. as a result, any such disruption, failure or cyber breach and any resulting investigation or remediation costs, litigation or regulatory action could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations, reputation and competitiveness. we routinely experience attempts by external parties to penetrate and attack our networks and systems. although such attempts to date have not resulted in any material breaches, disruptions, financial loss, or loss of business-critical information, our systems and procedures for protecting against such attacks and mitigating such risks may prove to be insufficient in the future and such attacks could have an adverse impact on our business and operations, including damage to our reputation and competitiveness, remediation costs, litigation or regulatory actions. in addition, as technologies evolve and these cyber security attacks become more sophisticated, we may incur significant costs to upgrade or enhance our security measures to protect against such attacks and we may face difficulties in fully anticipating or implementing adequate preventive measures or mitigating potential harm.