quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57risk factors 16 risk factors. our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. part i item 1. business in this report, intuitive surgical, intuitive, the company, we, us, and our refer to intuitive surgical, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. intuitive , intuitive surgical , da vinci , da vinci , da vinci si hd surgical system , da vinci hd surgical system , da vinci si , da vinci si-e , endowrist , endowrist one , endowrist stapler 45, single-site , dvstat, firefly , insite and da vinci connect are trademarks of intuitive surgical, inc. company background intuitive designs, manufactures and markets da vinci surgical systems and related instruments and accessories, which taken together, are advanced surgical systems that we consider an advanced generation of surgery. this advanced generation of surgery, which we call da vinci surgery, combines the benefits of minimally invasive surgery ( mis ) for patients with the ease of use, precision and dexterity of open surgery. a da vinci surgical system consists of a surgeon's console, a patient-side cart and a high performance vision system. the da vinci surgical system translates a surgeon's natural hand movements, which are performed on instrument controls at a console, into corresponding micro-movements of instruments positioned inside the patient through small incisions, or ports. the da vinci surgical system is designed to provide its operating surgeons with intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability and three dimensional ( 3-d ), high-definition ( hd ) vision while simultaneously allowing surgeons to work through the small ports enabled by mis procedures. da vinci surgery da vinci surgery utilizes computational, robotic and imaging technologies to enable improved patient outcomes compared to other surgical and non-surgical therapies. da vinci surgery is aimed towards advancing the critical surgical ideals of entering the body less invasively, seeing anatomy more clearly, interacting with tissue more precisely and building surgical skills. the da vinci surgical system enables surgeons to avail or improve the benefits of mis to many patients who would otherwise undergo a more invasive surgery. surgeons using the da vinci system operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a 3-d, hd image of the surgical field. this immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. while seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the more intuitive open surgery technique. our multi-port technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hand. in designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy to use. 4 table of contents our systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons: immersive 3-d visualization. our vision system includes a 3-d endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. the da vinci surgical system provides visualization of target anatomy with natural depth-of-field, enhanced contrast and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. with our new firefly fluorescence imaging upgrade, surgeons can use specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature or biliary imaging in cholecystectomy beneath tissue surfaces in real-time. precise and tremor-free endoscope control. our imaging system also incorporates our proprietary navigator camera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left and right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image. intuitive instrument movements. our technology is designed to transform the surgeon's natural hand movements outside the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient's body. for example, with the da vinci surgical system, a hand movement to the right outside the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. in contrast, conventional mis instruments are long rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. in conventional mis, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon's hand and surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to translate their hand movements in this backward environment. endowrist instruments. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human hand and wrist. most of our proprietary instruments, which we call endowrist instruments, incorporate wrist joints that enable surgeons to reach behind tissues and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery. scaled, tremor filtered instrument movement. with our technology, the surgeon can also use motion scaling, a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient's body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient's body. motion scaling is designed to allow precision and control for delicate tasks. in addition, our technology provides the filtering of tremor inherent in a surgeon's hands. improved surgeon ergonomics. the da vinci surgical system is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. the da vinci surgical system's design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon's console. because the da vinci surgical system's robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue. multi-specialty surgical platform. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures, within our targeted gynecologic, urologic, general surgery, cardiothoracic and head and neck specialties. to date, surgeons have used the da vinci surgical system to perform dozens of different types of surgical procedures. while we do not expect all of these different types of procedures to become widely adopted, they demonstrate the flexibility of the da vinci surgical system in approaching anatomy. advanced training tools. surgeons can efficiently train and improve their da vinci surgery skills with a group of tools unique to robotic surgery, including our da vinci skills simulator for software based skills practice and assessment, our da vinci dual console for inter-operative collaboration, and our da vinci connect networking technology for on-line proctoring. products: da vinci surgical system we have commercialized three generations of da vinci surgical system the da vinci si surgical system, the da vinci surgical system and the standard da vinci surgical system. da vinci surgical systems are comprised of the following components: surgeon's console . the da vinci surgical system allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic console viewing a 3-d image of the surgical field. the surgeon's fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with the surgeon's hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. using electronic hardware, software, algorithms and mechanics, our technology translates the surgeon's hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of the endowrist instruments positioned inside the patient. on our most current system, da vinci si , a second surgeon's console may be used in two possible ways: to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or to act as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. with the da vinci si , a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of the da vinci instruments during the surgery. in addition, surgeons can control 3-d virtual pointers to augment the dual surgeon experience. patient-side cart . the patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the patient. up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned as appropriate, and then locked into place. at least two arms hold 5 table of contents our endowrist instruments, one representing the surgeon's left hand and one representing the surgeon's right hand. a third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. an optional fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a third endowrist instrument to perform additional tasks. the fourth instrument arm is a standard integrated feature on the da vinci si and da vinci surgical systems and is available as a field upgrade on three-arm standard da vinci and three-arm da vinci surgical systems and da vinci si-e surgical systems. 3-d vision system. our vision system includes our insite 3-d endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. the resulting 3-d image has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker and low cross fading. a digital zoom feature in the 3-d, hd vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and thereby reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. the 3-d, hd vision is a standard integrated feature on da vinci and da vinci si surgical systems. da vinci skills simulator . the skills simulator is a practice tool which began shipping in early 2011 for the da vinci si surgical system that gives a user the opportunity to practice his or her facility with the surgeon console controls. the skills simulator incorporates 3-d, physics-based computer simulation technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment. the user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. upon completion of a skills exercise, the skills simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. the skills simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for the da vinci si surgical system. most da vinci skills simulators have been sold in connection with new da vinci si surgical system sales. firefly fluorescence imaging . in the first quarter of 2011, we launched our firefly product for use with the da vinci si surgical system. this imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da vinci camera head, endoscope and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy. adoption of firefly is progressing with use across the categories of urology, gynecology and general surgery. in september 2013, we received u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) 510(k) clearance to market our firefly fluorescence imaging product for real-time imaging of bile ducts (cystic duct, common bile duct and common hepatic duct). standard da vinci system. during 2013, we discontinued sale of the standard da vinci system. we intend to continue supporting the installed base of standard da vinci systems with existing service agreements, as well as the continued supply of instruments and accessories. during 2014, we will phase out the sale of all instrument, accessory and service offerings for the standard da vinci system. instruments and accessories endowrist instruments . we manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate wrist joints for natural dexterity, with tips customized for various surgical procedures. endowrist instruments are offered in a variety of sizes, of which 5mm and 8mm diameter sizes are the most commonly sold. at their tips, the various endowrist instruments include forceps, scissors, electrocautery, scalpels and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon from open surgery and conventional mis. a variety of endowrist instruments are selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. our endowrist instruments are sterilizable and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. a programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the system and instruments work together. in addition, the chip will not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed number of procedures so that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. we typically develop new types of endowrist instruments to support additional types of surgical procedures. da vinci single-site. da vinci single-site is a set of non-wristed instruments and accessories that allow da vinci si surgical systems to work through a single incision, typically in the umbilicus, rather than multiple incisions. single incision surgery is intended to minimize trauma to patients by reducing the number of ports required to enter the body and is typically utilized for less complex surgery than multi-port surgery. non-robotic single incision surgery today is typically performed with modified laparoscopic instruments. early clinical adoption of this manual technique has been mostly positive; however, physicians have reported that manual single incision surgery is technically and ergonomically challenging. da vinci single-site instruments and accessories were designed to address these issues. in february 2011, we received the ce mark for our da vinci single-site instrument kit and began selling these new products in europe. the majority of da vinci single-site procedures performed in europe to date has been cholecystectomies. in december 2011, we received fda regulatory clearance to market our single-site instrumentation in the u.s. for laparoscopic cholecystectomy procedures. in february 2013, we received fda clearance to market our single-site instruments for benign hysterectomy and salpingo oophorectomy procedures. we believe that the da vinci single-site has been positively received by hospitals, surgeons, and patients, with over 800 customers having purchased da vinci single-site kits as of december 31, 2013. however, as these are our initial 6 table of contents products targeted towards procedures already highly penetrated by manual mis techniques, we are not able to predict the extent or pace that da vinci single-site may be adopted. endowrist one vessel sealer . in december 2011, we received fda clearance for our endowrist one vessel sealer. the endowrist one vessel sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7 mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. this instrument enables da vinci si surgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of da vinci surgery. this instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures. clinical response to the endowrist one vessel sealer has been encouraging, with positive commentary on precision, articulation, vessel sealing quality and thermal spread. we expect applications for the endowrist one vessel sealer to be centered on general surgery and gynecologic oncology procedures. endowrist one vessel sealer utilization rates have increased steadily in 2013. endowrist stapler 45 instrument . in october 2012, we received fda clearance for our endowrist stapler 45 instrument with blue and green 45 mm reloads. the endowrist stapler 45 is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection and/or creation of anastomoses in general, gynecologic and urologic surgery. this instrument enables operators of the da vinci si to precisely position and fire the stapler. we expect its initial surgical use to be directed towards colorectal procedures. during 2013, the endowrist stapler was used by a limited and gradually increasing number of customers, primarily for colorectal procedures. although our first customer experiences have been positive, we are in the early stages of selling endowrist stapler 45 and while we expect to continue to expand to a broadening set of customers in 2014, we are not able to predict the extent to which the instrument may be adopted. accessory products . we sell various accessory products which are used in conjunction with the da vinci surgical system as surgical procedures are performed. accessory products include sterile drapes used to ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products such as replacement 3-d stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other items that facilitate use of the system. business strategy our objective is to bring the benefits of mis to as many patients as possible through the use of computer aided robotic technologies. our priorities to accomplish this are as follows: 1. patient value. we believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as: patient value = procedure efficacy/invasiveness . we define procedure efficacy as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness is how disruptive and painful the treatment is itself. when the patient value of a da vinci procedure is deemed higher than alternate treatment options, patients may seek out surgeons and hospitals that offer that specific da vinci procedure, potentially resulting in a local market share shift for the specific treatment. adoption occurs procedure by procedure, and is driven by the relative patient value of da vinci procedures compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state. we believe most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. our goal is to provide products to surgeons who in turn provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options. 2. surgeon value. we train surgeons on the use of our da vinci surgical system and assist them in building their practices by their delivery of superior patient value. we provide an ergonomic platform for surgeons to perform their procedures. we seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy to use products. 3. hospital value. we assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value using da vinci thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced length of patient stay. da vinci surgery is a cost effective approach to many surgeries as compared to alternative treatment options as demonstrated in many published economic studies. given the priorities above, our strategy is to improve our candidate surgical procedures in one or more of the following ways: 1. convert candidate open procedures to da vinci urgery. we believe that our technology has the potential to convert a significant percentage of our targeted open procedures to da vinci surgery. 2. facilitate difficult mis operations. we believe that several surgical procedures that are seldom performed today using conventional mis techniques can be performed more routinely using da vinci surgery. some procedures have been adopted using mis techniques but are extremely difficult and are currently performed by a limited number of highly skilled surgeons. we believe our da vinci surgical system will enable more surgeons at more institutions to perform such procedures. 3. offer a less invasive single port surgical option. we believe that our da vinci single site technology has the potential to convert candidate procedures typically performed via multiport laparoscopic technique to single port da vinci surgery, offering patients less invasive, improved cosmetic outcomes. 7 table of contents clinical applications we are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and applications for da vinci surgery an important part of our creative process. we primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value, surgeon value and hospital value. we currently focus on five surgical specialties: urologic surgery, gynecologic surgery, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery and head and neck surgery. key procedures which we are focused on include da vinci prostatectomy ( dvp ), da vinci hysterectomy ( dvh ), da vinci cholecystectomy, da vinci colon and rectal procedures, da vinci partial nephrectomy, da vinci myomectomy, da vinci sacrocolpopexy, da vinci mitral valve repair, da vinci lobectomy and da vinci transoral robotic surgery (for cancers of the throat). in 2013 , we estimate that over 75% of the procedures performed were in the urologic and gynecologic specialties. representative surgical applications are described below. urologic surgery prostatectomy. radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. the standard approach to removal of the prostate has been via an open surgical procedure. the conventional laparoscopic approach is an option, but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. the da vinci surgical system has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique. partial nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor). partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. excluding da vinci surgery, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy and hand assisted laparoscopy, which is a hybrid of open and laparoscopic technique. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients. pyeloplasty. pyeloplasty is the surgical reconstruction or revision of the renal pelvis to drain and decompress the kidney. in nearly all cases, the goal of pyeloplasty surgery is to relieve an uretero-pelvic junction obstruction. excluding da vinci surgery, there are two common surgical approaches to performing pyeloplasty: open surgical technique and laparoscopy. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of pyeloplasty patients. gynecologic surgery hysterectomy. removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and is performed for a variety of underlying benign and malignant conditions. hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy), a vaginal approach, or mis techniques, which include both laparoscopic and robotic approaches. despite the availability of non-robotic mis approaches to hysterectomy, most hysterectomies performed prior to da vinci surgery were open surgeries. da vinci has enabled a large number of women to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an alternative to an open hysterectomy. during the first quarter of 2013, single-site instruments were fda cleared in the u.s. for use in benign hysterectomies and salpingo oophorectomies. single-site instruments enable surgeons to perform surgery through a single port via the patient's belly button, resulting in virtually scarless patient outcomes. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2013, we experienced lower growth rates in the category of u.s. benign gynecologic procedures than in prior years. the slower 2013 growth rate in the category of u.s. benign gynecologic procedures reflected a number of factors including, but not limited to, apparent pressure on benign gynecology hospital admissions, negative media reports about da vinci surgery and a trend by payers toward encouraging conservative disease management and treatment in outpatient settings. we believe there is still a significant remaining market opportunity in benign gynecologic procedures since a large number are still done via open technique. however, as we penetrate more deeply into benign gynecologic procedures, our pace of capturing or consolidating the remaining market is progressing at a slower rate than previously. myomectomy. myomectomy, or removal of a myoma/fibroid, is a surgical procedure performed when uterine preservation is sought, typically to preserve fertility. due to the substantial suturing required for this procedure, the standard surgical approach remains an open incision. there are some highly skilled gynecological laparoscopists who perform laparoscopic myomectomies, but laparoscopic myomectomy has remained a minority of myomectomies performed. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of myomectomy patients. sacrocolpopexy. the abdominal (open) sacrocolpopexy is one of the most successful operations for vaginal vault prolapse. sacrocolpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). a sacrocolpopexy can be performed using conventional laparoscopic technique, however, it is generally described as difficult 8 table of contents and cumbersome to perform. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of sacrocolpopexy patients. endometriosis resection . endometriosis is a gynecological medical condition in which cells from the lining of the uterus (endometrium) migrate outside the uterus. endometriosis can range from mild to severe, and in the worst cases, can infiltrate bowel, ureters, ovaries and other organs in the female pelvis. because of the diffuse and extensive nature of severe endometriosis, it can be difficult to treat either pharmaceutically or surgically. a successful resection of endometriosis involves both seeing lesions and their careful resection. surgeons have reported that da vinci surgery may enable a larger number of women with endometriosis to receive an effective mis approach to their endometriosis resection. cardiothoracic surgery mitral valve repair. when patients are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient's post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen. since mitral valve repairs are considered to be more technically challenging than mitral valve replacements, they are only performed approximately 50% of the time. several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when using the da vinci surgical system. thoracic surgery. conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision and esophagectomy. many thoracic procedures remain open procedures. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients. general surgery cholecystectomy. cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of the gall bladder, is a commonly performed general surgery procedure. cholecystectomy is the primary method for the treatment of gallstones and other gall bladder diseases. most cholecystectomies are performed using multi-port mis techniques, although some surgeons choose to perform cholecystectomy using manual single-port instrumentation. with the 2011 european introduction of da vinci single-site instruments followed by the u.s. introduction in 2012, single-site robotic cholecystectomies are now being performed. using da vinci single-site instruments, many of the technical challenges of manual single-port mis are reduced as surgeons benefit from additional precision, control and improved ergonomics. multi-port robotic cholecystectomies are also being performed. colorectal surgery. these procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular the rectum or colon. common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection and abdominoperineal resection. conventional laparoscopy is not widely employed to treat these types of diseases, due to their high degree of difficulty. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in colorectal surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients. gastric bypass. a growing body of literature is pointing to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its secondary effects, such as diabetes. laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass ( lrygb ) is the most commonly performed surgical procedure for morbid obesity in the u.s. the lrygb can be a technically challenging procedure because of the suturing, stapling and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. surgeons using the da vinci surgical system have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to lrygb. head and neck surgery transoral surgery. head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation, or a combination of both. surgical resection performed by an open approach may require a jaw-splitting mandibulotomy. this procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. mis approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated by conventional endoscopic tools. chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions; however, literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients' ability to speak and swallow normally. surgeons have reported that da vinci transoral surgery allows them to treat cancers occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line-of-sight limitations of conventional transoral surgery. thyroidectomy. thyroid cancer is most commonly treated by thyroidectomy, the removal of all or part of the thyroid gland. complete resection of the cancer and surrounding gland is required for proper oncologic outcomes. open surgery is an effective surgery in terms of oncologic control and has low complication rates. however, it leaves a prominent neck scar. 9 table of contents surgeons, predominantly in asia, are now using the da vinci surgical system to perform thyroidectomies entering the body from the axilla (armpit) in order to avoid the visible scar on the neck. at this time, the procedure is not within the indications for use for the da vinci system in the u.s. procedure segmentation our procedure business is now splitting into two segments: (1) cancer and other highly complex procedures and (2) less complex benign procedures. our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economic solutions in each of these categories. more fully featured products targeted towards the more complex procedure segment include 4-arm, dual console, firefly enabled systems and advanced instruments including vessel sealing and stapler. lower priced products targeted towards the less complex segment of procedures include the three-arm da vinci si-e system and lower priced single-site instruments. our less complex segment has increased from approximately 40% to 60% of u.s. procedures between 2011 and 2013. the complex procedure segment represents the large majority of international procedures. clinical summary we believe there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the da vinci surgical system and we work closely with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in which da vinci may bring value. as of december 31, 2013 , we had an installed base of 2,966 da vinci surgical systems, including 2,083 in the u.s., 476 in europe, 159 in japan, and 248 in the rest of the world. during the year ended december 31, 2013 , we estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 523,000 surgical procedures of various types in hospitals throughout the world. of those da vinci procedures performed in 2013 , we estimate that approximately 201,000 were dvh procedures and approximately 114,000 were dvp procedures. we believe the u.s. preventive services task force recommendation against psa screening, as well as changes in treatment patterns for low risk prostate cancer away from definitive treatment, have led to a decline in our dvp business. during 2013 u.s. dvp procedure volumes appear to have stabilized, with a gradually decreasing trend. these treatment patterns have also impacted our european dvp procedure volumes. dvp is at earlier market penetration stages in the european markets; therefore, we are unable to precisely estimate the extent to which these recommendations and treatment pattern changes may have been adopted by governments or clinicians within non-u.s. jurisdictions. sales and customer support sales model we provide our products through a direct sales organization in the u.s., most of western europe excluding spain, portugal, italy and greece and, beginning with our acquisition of our korean distributor on january 11, 2012, korea. beginning in 2013, we also established a direct sales structure in the czech republic, slovakia, and hungary. prior to 2013, these markets were served by a distributor. in the remainder of our world markets, we provide our products through distributors. no one customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . our direct sales organization is composed of a capital sales team, responsible for selling da vinci surgical systems, and a clinical sales team, responsible for supporting da vinci surgical system use in surgical procedures performed at our hospital accounts. the initial da vinci surgical system sale into an account is viewed as a major capital equipment purchase by our customers and typically has a lengthy sales cycle that can be affected by macroeconomic factors, capital spending prioritization and the timing of budgeting cycles. capital sales activities include educating surgeons and hospital staff across multiple surgical specialties on the benefits of da vinci surgery and the clinical applications that our technology enables. we also train our sales organization to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including clinical benefits of da vinci surgery, reductions in complications and length of stay, and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction, surgeon recruitment and volume. as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately 120 capital sales employees, compared to 92 as of december 31, 2012 . our clinical sales team works on site at the hospitals, interacting with surgeons, operating room staff and hospital administrators to develop and sustain successful robotics surgery programs. they assist the hospital in identifying surgeons who have an interest in robotic surgery delivering da vinci's benefits. our clinical sales team provides the current clinical information on robotic surgery practices and new product applications to the hospital teams and has grown in relation to growth in the installed base of da vinci systems and the total number of procedures performed. as of december 31, 2013 , we had 722 clinical sales employees, compared to 685 as of december 31, 2012 . this organization is expected to grow as our business expands. our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. orders received are typically shipped within one business day. direct customers who purchase a new da vinci surgical system typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories within one month of receiving their system. our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first and third fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. in addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure 10 table of contents volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarter. procedures treating benign conditions are typically higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter. benign procedures represented a higher percentage of our total procedures in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the fourth quarter of 2012. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth impact the timing of instrument and accessory and capital purchases. customer support and training programs we have a network of field service engineers across the u.s., europe and asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. this infrastructure of service and support specialists offer a full complement of services, including 24/7 support, installation, repair and maintenance for our customers. we generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs. we provide basic system training that teaches the fundamental operating principles of the da vinci surgical system to surgeons, surgical assistants and operating room nurses. we have established training centers where initial system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. surgeons may also practice their robotic surgery technique using our da vinci skills simulator. in addition, we help facilitate the proctoring of surgeons who are new to da vinci surgery by experienced da vinci surgical system users. proctors provide training to other surgeons on how to perform certain surgical procedures with da vinci surgical systems. research and development we focus our research and development efforts on providing our customers with new products and product improvements that enable them to perform mis procedures with less difficulty. we employ research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. we invested $167.7 million , $170.0 million and $140.2 million of research and development expenses for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. we establish strategic alliances with other medical device and technology based companies to complement our research and development effort. to date, these alliances have taken several forms, including cooperation in the areas of product development, training, procedure development and marketing activities. we have formed alliances with several companies, including, but not limited to, erbe elektromedizin gmbh, johnson &amp; johnson, olympus/gyrus, novadaq technologies, inc. and mimic technologies, inc. manufacturing we manufacture our da vinci surgical systems at our facility in sunnyvale, california. we manufacture our instruments at our sunnyvale facility and mexicali, mexico facility. we purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). we purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods. competition we consider our primary competition to be existing open surgery, conventional mis, drug therapies, radiation treatment and emerging interventional surgical approaches. our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability as well as educating hospitals, surgeons and patients on the demonstrated results associated with da vinci surgery and its value relative to other techniques. we also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the mis market. we believe that many are focused on adding capability to manual mis systems. because many of these developments are aimed at mis, we believe that our da vinci surgical system may prove complementary to some of these new technologies. moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g., single-site , stapler, and vessel sealer) that compete with product offerings traditionally within the domains of open surgery and/or conventional mis, we face greater competition from larger and well established companies such as ethicon endo-surgery, inc. and covidien plc. furthermore, as da vinci use increases, a number of companies may be compelled to enter the field of robotic surgery, including but not limited to stryker corporation, covidien plc, johnson &amp; johnson, and olympus. the following companies have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field: medrobotics corp., meerecompany inc., sofar s.p.a., imris inc., transenterix, inc., and titan medical, inc. companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. in addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. our revenues may be adversely impacted if our competitors develop and introduce products that compete in our markets. 11 table of contents intellectual property we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes. we generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. for example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. we also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own large and robust patent portfolio. as of december 31, 2013 , we held ownership or exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 1,500 u.s. and foreign patents and more than 1,400 u.s. and forei gn patent applications. we intend to continue filing new patent applications in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology. patents are granted for finite terms and eventually expire. upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a patent enter the public domain. while our patents are an important element of our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. government regulation our products and operations are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the fda, the state of california and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate compliance to these with the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to meet these standards could limit the ability to market our products in those regions which require compliance to such standards. examples of groups of such standards are electrical safety standards such as those of the international electrotechnical commission (e.g. iec 60601-ss series of standards) and composition standards such as the reduction of hazardous substances ( rohs ) and waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directives. united states the fda regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing, distribution and service of medical devices in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in addition, the fda regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the u.s. to international markets and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad. under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act ( ffdca ), medical devices are classified into one of three classes class i, class ii or class iii depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. our current products are class ii medical devices. class ii devices are those which are subject to general controls and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the fda, and clearance by the fda. premarket review and clearance by the fda for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process. unless a class ii device is exempt from premarket review, the manufacturer must submit to the fda a premarket notification submission demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent in intended use and technology to a predicate device that is either: 1. a device that has grandfather marketing status because it was legally marketed prior to may 28, 1976, the date upon which the medical device amendments of 1976 were enacted, or 2. a device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process. if the fda agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the u.s. the fda has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission or 30 days for special 510(k) submissions which have a more restrictive scope and generally more specific or very limited changes to a legally marketed device. as a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. the fda may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. if the fda determines that the device, or its intended use, is not substantially equivalent, the fda may deny the request for clearance. although unlikely for the types of products marketed by us, the fda may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into class iii, and the device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-marketing approval ( pma ) requirements. a pma application, which is intended to demonstrate that a device is safe and effective, must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. the fda, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review a pma application, though the review more often occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. in approving a pma application or clearing a 510(k) submission, the fda may also require some form of post-market surveillance when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety 12 table of contents and effectiveness data for the device. in such cases, the manufacturer might be required to follow certain patient groups for a number of years and makes periodic reports to the fda on the clinical status of those patients. after a device receives fda 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pma application approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make the determination of whether a modification requires a new 501(k) notification or pma application in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer's decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or pma approval for a particular change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease u.s. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising claims of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the u.s. have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the fda's good manufacturing practice ( gmp ), requirements contained in its quality system regulation ( qsr ) and associated regulations and guidance. the qsr covers, among other things, the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping, installation and service of a company's products. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with fda regulation, the manufacturer's own procedures, specifications and testing as well as distribution and postmarket experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the u.s. a company's facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the fda, which may issue reports known as forms fda 483 or notices of inspectional observations which list instances where the fda inspector believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if the observations are sufficiently serious or the manufacturer fails to respond appropriately, the fda may issue warning letters, or untitled letters, which are notices of intended enforcement actions against the manufacturer. these enforcement actions could include legal actions, including fines and total shutdown of production facilities, seizure of product, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the u.s., and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. in the u.s., routine fda inspections usually occur every two years, and may occur more often for cause. a fda inspection of the company's facilities occurred in april-may 2013 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing four observations relating to the reporting of field corrections, information which is to be included on reports of field corrections, written procedures for changes to certain product labeling, and design input documentation. we responded to each observation with corrective actions during the course of the inspection and provided additional evidence of corrective actions to the fda in response to the form fda 483. the fda issued a warning letter, dated july 16, 2013, related to two of the four form fda 483 observations asking for additional corrective actions and indicated their intent to perform a follow-up inspection. we have responded to the warning letter with plans for corrective action, and continue to provide supplemental responses with objective evidence of corrections as they are completed. in addition, the fda collected electronic samples of all our advertising and promotional material for review, and to date has taken no action in connection therewith. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our corrective actions are acceptable or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure that the fda will not find other observations. the fda previously inspected our sunnyvale, ca facilities in january 2012 and did not issue a form fda 483 as a result of this inspection. to greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include periodic inspections, inspections by third party auditors, and specialized documentation. failure to meet all the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support and receive reimbursement for the use of our products in these countries. in addition to the above, we may seek to conduct clinical research on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for particular indications in clinical studies or trials in the u.s. or other countries. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board ( irb ). failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject the company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot assure that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. 13 table of contents products manufactured outside the u.s. by or for us are subject to u.s. customs and fda inspection upon entry into the u.s. we must demonstrate compliance of such products to u.s. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays. california regulation the state of california requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and until 2012 conducted periodic inspection of medical device manufacturers. our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in july 2011 and were found to be in compliance. in accordance with the state of california regulations, the license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information. although the state of california has announced suspension of routine periodic inspections, there can be no assurance the state of california will not resume such inspections or conduct such inspections under specific circumstances which are not yet known. foreign regulation in order for us to market our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations in other countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. some countries have regulatory review processes which are substantially longer than u.s. processes. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive regulatory ( shonin ) approval. in november 2009, we received shonin approval from the japanese ministry of health, labor, and welfare ( mhlw ) for our da vinci surgical system in japan. these sales were primarily made to early adopters. since receiving the approval, we have been focusing our efforts on obtaining specific reimbursement for da vinci procedures in japan and building our own organization, intuitive surgical japan. prior to april 2012, we had partnered with the experienced regulatory team from johnson &amp; johnson k.k. medical company ( jjkk ) in our japanese regulatory process. in april 2012, the marketing authorization application for da vinci products was transferred to intuitive surgical japan from jjkk, and intuitive surgical japan now has primary responsibility for regulatory support of our products in japan. we continue to partner with adachi co., ltd. as our separate independent distribution partner for marketing, selling, and servicing our products in japan. effective april 2012, we obtained national reimbursement for dvp procedures in japan, our only reimbursed procedure to date. in october 2012, we obtained mhlw approval for da vinci si surgical systems in japan. in japan additional procedures are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years as the mhlw considers recommendations and data brought forth from japanese surgical societies. we do not expect any additional procedures to be granted reimbursement status in the april 2014 cycle. we are supporting the japanese surgical societies to gather the necessary data for mhlw consideration in the april 2016 cycle. if we are not successful in obtaining additional regulatory clearances, importation licenses, and adequate procedure reimbursements for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products in japan could be limited. commercialization of medical devices in europe is regulated by the european union ( eu ). the eu presently requires that all medical products bear the conformit europ enne ( ce ) mark, for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and performance mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu and those affiliated which accept the ce mark. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to affix the ce mark on products, a recognized european notified body must certify a manufacturer's quality system and design dossier for compliance with international and european requirements. we have received authorization from dgm denmark a/s, a recognized european notified body and part of nemko presafe a/s to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and accessories. to maintain authorization to apply the ce mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. as of 2012, notified bodies, including dgm, are also required to conduct periodic unannounced inspections. if we modify our existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu or those whose marketing authorizations are based on the ce mark. regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. these regulations typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. in addition, local regulations may apply which govern the use of 14 table of contents our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. all such regulations are revised from time to time and in general are increasing in complexity, and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing required. there can be no assurance the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. there are further regulations governing the importation, marketing, sale, distribution, use and service as well as the removal and disposal of medical devices. failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions, fines and prevent us from marketing our products in these regions. third-party coverage and reimbursement in the u.s. and most international markets where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all covered surgical procedures. governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and physicians for surgery when the procedure is considered medically necessary. in the u.s., the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), administers the medicare and medicaid programs (the latter, along with applicable state governments). many other third-party payors model their reimbursement methodologies after the medicare program. as the single largest payor, this program has a significant impact on other payors' payment systems. generally, reimbursement for professional services performed at a facility by physicians is reported under billing codes issued by the american medical association ( ama ), known as current procedural terminology ( cpt ) codes. physician reimbursement under medicare generally is based on a fee schedule and determined by the relative values of the professional service rendered. in addition, cms and the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to billing codes known as icd-9-cm procedural codes used by hospitals to report inpatient procedures. for medicare, cms generally reimburses hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay based on a prospective payment system that is determined by a classification system known as medicare-severity diagnostic related groupings ( ms-drgs ). ms-drgs are assigned using a number of factors including the principal diagnosis, major procedures, discharged status, patient age and complicating secondary diagnoses among other things. hospital outpatient services, reported by cpt codes, are assigned to clinically relevant ambulatory payment classifications ( apcs ) used to determine the payment amount for services provided. on october 1, 2008, cms and nchs issued a new family of icd-9-cm procedure codes for robotically assisted procedures. for laparoscopic procedures completed with the da vinci surgical system, u.s. hospitals are expected to report the primary surgical procedure code, along with icd-9-cm 17.42, to describe a laparoscopic robotic assisted procedure. the purpose of the icd-9-cm family of procedure codes, 17.4x, is to gather data on robotic assisted surgical procedures. at this time, it does not appear that these codes will be available after october 1, 2014, when the icd-10 code sets are implemented. a surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the clinically relevant ms-drg. governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, contract terms, and other factors. because both hospitals and physicians may receive the same reimbursement for their respective services, with or without robotics, regardless of actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care, including for the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products. domestic institutions typically bill for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. because our da vinci surgical system has been cleared for commercial distribution in the u.s. by the fda, coverage and reimbursement by payors are generally determined by the medical necessity of the primary surgical procedure. we believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies for appropriately selected patients. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. in countries outside the u.s., reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. in most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. additionally, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain european countries. to effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek international reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. in april 2012, radical prostatectomy utilizing the da vinci surgical system was approved for reimbursement in japan. we intend to seek reimbursement approvals from the japanese government for additional procedures performed with our products. the timing of these approvals can vary significantly, and could significantly impact our ability to commercialize our products in japan. in some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such co-pay practices are not common in most countries. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact healthcare providers, insurers, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. one of the principal aims of the ppaca is to 15 table of contents expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million americans who are currently uninsured. the consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are currently unknown. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund this coverage expansion, including, but not limited to new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. starting in 2013, medical device manufacturers are required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% on certain u.s. medical device revenues. under this provision, the company has paid an excise tax of approximately 1% of total global revenue in 2013. the tax is included as a cost of revenue and a reduction of product gross margin. the ppaca also has provisions to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. it remains unclear how this research will influence future medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions, as well as influence other third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies. as congress and state governments determine how to implement the ppaca, the full impact of the ppaca on the medical device industry and the sale of our products is currently unknown. the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the taxes imposed by ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits, lower reimbursement from payors for procedures that use our products and/or reduced procedural volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. more recently, on august 2, 2011, the u.s. president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. this included aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year,, which went into effect on april 1, 2013. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would affect our ability to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. employees as of december 31, 2013 , we had 2,792 employees, 325 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 1,018 in manufacturing and service and 1,449 in marketing, sales, and administrative activities. none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. general we make our periodic and current reports, including our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, our code of business conduct and ethics policy and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission. our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com and the reports are filed under sec filings, on the company investor relations portion of our website. periodically, we webcast company announcements, product launch events and executive presentations which can be viewed via our investor relations pages on our website. additionally, we provide notifications of our material news including sec filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our investor relations website. the contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. we operate our business as one segment as defined by generally accepted accounting principles. our financial results for the year ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 are discussed in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this annual report. intuitive surgical, inc. was founded in 1995. we are a delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1020 kifer road, sunnyvale, california 94086. our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com . item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial 16 table of contents to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors' acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could materially adversely affect our company. during 2008 and 2009, the global economy experienced a severe downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, the credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. more recently, credit and sovereign debt issues have destabilized certain european economies as well and thereby increased global macroeconomic uncertainties. uncertainty about current global economic conditions continue to pose a risk as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit. there could be additional effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays, and the inability of our customers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if conditions worsen or if the improved economic conditions are slower than anticipated, our forecasted demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and the market price of our stock. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors' products or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than da vinci surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. in addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. for example, sofar s.p.a, an italian medical device company, supported by the european commission's joint research centre, has developed a telesurgical robot system. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. as a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we experience long and variable capital sales cycles and seasonality in our business, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable. this approval process can be lengthy. in addition, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in 17 table of contents conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines. as a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, and lighter in the third and first fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. recently, we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpopexies, myomectomies, and certain other surgeries. many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. historically, we have experienced lower procedure counts in the first and third fiscal quarter and higher procedure counts in the fourth fiscal quarter. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases. the above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. in addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. international sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our international activities. our business currently depends in part on our activities in international markets. revenue from markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 28% , 21% , and 22% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. these challenges include: failure to obtain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the united states; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products; inability or regulatory limitations of our ability to move goods across borders; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. a large portion of our international sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in international markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, which subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. in addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them. please see our risk factor below titled unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. the actions of our distributors may affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if the distributor holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance. it may be difficult, expensive and time consuming for intuitive to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance in such case. we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily 18 table of contents for the euro and the british pound. we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary based on our assessment of the relevant risks, opportunities and expenses. our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components and computer software, any of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems. we cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors or performance problems in the future. if we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products that could be expensive, divert management's attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims, which are inherent to the medical device industry. product liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class. we currently are subject to product liability claims, which are described in more detail under part i, item 3. legal proceedings, and which have been brought by individuals alleging that they have sustained personal injuries and/or death as a result of purported product defects, the alleged failure to warn, and/or the alleged inadequate training by us of physicians regarding the use of the da vinci surgical system. the individuals who have brought the product liability claims seek recovery for the alleged personal injuries and in many cases, punitive damages. current product liability claims have resulted in negative publicity regarding our company, and these and any other product liability or negligence claims or product recalls also could harm our reputation. in addition, there have been articles published and papers written questioning patient safety and efficacy associated with da vinci surgery, the cost of da vinci surgery relative to other disease management methods, and the adequacy of surgeon training. negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. in addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, regardless of whether these claims are meritorious. the number of claims could be further increased by plaintiffs' law firms that use a wide variety of media to advertise their services and solicit clients for product liability cases against the company. the outcome of product liability litigation is inherently uncertain and difficult to quantify, and the magnitude of potential damages, if any, may not be known for a substantial period of time. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover current or future claims. particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. in addition, current or future product liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal costs (including settlements, judgments, legal fees and other related defense costs). it is possible that future legal costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings are described under part i, item 3. legal proceedings. 19 table of contents the results of these lawsuits and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. accordingly, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses, if any. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. if we do not prevail in the purported class action lawsuit or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we (or our critical suppliers) may encounter difficulties in scaling up or maintaining production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; import or export restrictions on components, materials or technology; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. in the united states, hospitals generally bill for the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled recently enacted healthcare legislation reforming the u.s. healthcare system, as well as future reforms, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software and optics. 20 table of contents attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. for example, the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan and their aftermath created economic uncertainty and disrupted economic activities in japan, including a reduction in hospital spending. our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in california, a seismically active region. a natural disaster in any of our major markets could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or our business may be harmed. we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, we purchased our korean distributor in january 2012. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. an acquired company may have deficiencies in product quality or regulatory marketing authorizations which are not detected during due diligence activities or which are unasserted at the time of acquisition. it may be difficult, expensive and time consuming for us to re-establish market access, regulatory compliance or cure such deficiencies in product quality in such cases. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. we are subject to significant, uninsured liabilities. for certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. for example, we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not insure for the underlying losses, and we do not carry earthquake insurance, among other types of coverage that we do not maintain. in addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors' and officers' insurance or products liability insurance may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases self-insure completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we use estimates, make judgments and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. as these estimates, judgments, and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and 21 table of contents assumptions, and factors may arise over time may lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. in addition, we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes and da vinci procedures completed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. our estimates of surgical market sizes or da vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations but are used to estimate the progress of our business. estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and da vinci procedures may vary over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee and other factors. in addition, from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and da vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations a number of factors may harm our future effective tax rates including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits and deductions; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could harm net income for future periods. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. our business requires us to use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information ( pii ). this may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. we require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. we also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. these security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. we may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service and may harm our business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of pii, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of the company's products and services could decrease. we would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 table of contents risks relating to our regulatory environment recently enacted healthcare legislation reforming the u.s. healthcare system, as well as future reforms, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. one of the principal aims of the ppaca as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million americans who are currently uninsured. the consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are unknown and speculative at this point. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions among other things. this includes new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain u.s. medical device revenues. though there are some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax does apply to all or most of our products sold within the united states. the ppaca also establishes a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee and identify priorities in comparative clinical effectiveness research in an effort to coordinate and develop such research; implements payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians, and other providers to improve the coordination, quality, and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models; and creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. the ppaca provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research also extend the initiatives of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, known as the stimulus package, which included $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. this stimulus funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or reviewing research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products. the ppaca appropriates additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research. although congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it remains unclear how the research will impact current medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies. the taxes imposed by the ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. more recently, on august 2, 2011, the u.s. president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. this included aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year,, which went into effect on april 1, 2013. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. we expect that additional state and federal health care reform measures may be adopted in the future, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on certain development projects. the u. s. government has in the past considered, is currently considering and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. state and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted similar types of policies. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the united states or elsewhere, and current uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. we are unable to predict whether other healthcare policies, including policies stemming from legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect such policies would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. 23 table of contents we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act requires us to track and disclose the source of certain metals used in manufacturing which may stem from minerals (so called conflict minerals ) which originate in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining regions. these metals include tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. these metals are central to the technology industry and are present in some of our products as component parts. in most cases no acceptable alternative material exists which has the necessary properties. it is not possible to determine the source of the metals by analysis but instead a good faith description of the source of the intermediate components and raw materials must be obtained. the components which incorporate those metals may originate from many sources and we purchase fabricated products from manufacturers who may have a long and difficult-to-trace supply chain. as the spot price of these materials varies, producers of the metal intermediates can be expected to change the mix of sources used, and components and assemblies which we buy may have a mix of sources as their origin. we are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. there can be no assurance we can obtain this information from intermediate producers who are unwilling or unable to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. these metals are subject to price fluctuations and shortages which can affect our ability to obtain the manufactured materials we rely on at favorable terms or from consistent sources. these changes could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture and market our devices and products. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, prohibit payments or other remuneration that could be considered to induce hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. further, the recently enacted ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the ppaca provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. these laws may affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial and include exclusion from government healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. the ppaca also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. device manufacturers were required to begin collecting data on august 1, 2013 and will be required to submit reports to cms by march 31, 2014 and the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year. in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. certain states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance of one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties. compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the united states and/or abroad. these numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures 24 table of contents designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory review process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory authorizations, we will not be able to provide our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ). the fda regulates the development, bench and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, sales, distribution and postmarket support and reporting of medical devices in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food drug and cosmetic act ( ffdca ). clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered ( pre-amendment ) status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application ( pma ) for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the united states. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the united states. furthermore, the fda may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. regulatory policy affecting our products can change at any time. the changes and their impact on our business cannot be accurately predicted. for example, in 2011, the fda announced a plan of action to modernize and improve the fda's premarket review of medical devices, and has implemented, and continues to implement, reforms intended to streamline the premarket review process. in addition, as part of the food and drug administration safety and innovation act of 2012, or fdasia, congress enacted several reforms entitled the medical device regulatory improvements and additional miscellaneous provisions which will further affect medical device regulation both pre- and post-approval. changes in the fda 510(k) process could make approval more difficult to obtain, increase delay, add uncertainty and have other significant adverse effects on our ability to obtain and maintain approval for our products. the fda may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a pma, which is typically a much more complex, lengthy and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. in some cases such studies may be requested for a 510(k) as well. we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, in which case the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a medical device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board ( irb ) approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption ( ide ) application. many of our products to date have been or would be considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the united states for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to conduct studies which comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certainty that clinical trials will meet desired endpoints, produce meaningful or useful data and be free of unexpected adverse effects, or that the fda will accept the validity of foreign clinical study data cannot be assured, and such uncertainty could preclude or delay market clearance or authorizations resulting in significant financial costs and reduced revenue. in addition, some products may be regulated by the fda as drugs, biologics or combination devices which carry still greater requirements for clinical trials, regulatory submissions and approvals. 25 table of contents complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous quality and postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: continued compliance to the qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the development and manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda's general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; stringent complaint reporting and medical device reporting regulations, which requires that manufacturers keep detailed records of investigations or complaints against their devices and to report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; adequate use of the corrective and preventive actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest same; and the reporting of corrections and removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from inspectional observations (form fda 483) to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance. we have created labeling, advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to describe specific surgical procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) indications for use stated in our 510(k) clearances. although we have relied on expert in-house and external staff, consultants and advisors, many of whom were formerly employed by fda and familiar with fda requirements, we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. we also have modified the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system since obtaining 510(k) clearance in ways that we do not believe require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. computer motion, which we acquired in 2003, also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or computer motion's products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. a fda inspection of the company's facilities occurred in april-may 2013 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing four observations relating to the reporting of field corrections, information which is to be included on reports of field corrections, written procedures for changes to certain product labeling, and design input documentation. we responded to each observation with corrective actions during the course of the inspection and provided additional evidence of corrective actions to the fda in response to the form fda 483. the fda issued a warning letter, dated july 16, 2013, related to two of the four form fda 483 observations asking for additional corrective actions and indicated their intent to perform a follow-up inspection. we have responded to the warning letter with plans for corrective action, and continue to provide supplemental responses with objective evidence of corrections as they are completed. in addition, the fda collected electronic samples of all our advertising and promotional material for review, and to date have taken no action in connection therewith. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our corrective actions are acceptable or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure that the fda will not find other observations. the fda previously inspected our sunnyvale, ca facilities in january 2012 and did not issue a form fda 483 as a result of this inspection. the receipt of a warning letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain fda issued certificates to foreign government ( cfgs ) used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries. we have a wholly owned manufacturing facility located in mexicali, mexico which manufactures reusable and disposable surgical instruments. this facility is registered with the u.s. fda as well as mexican authorities. the facility is operated under u.s. and international quality system regulations including those applicable to canada, the european union and japan among others. our wholly owned manufacturing facility in mexicali, mexico has an fda establishment registration but has not been 26 table of contents fda inspected to date. if the fda were to determine non-conformances in our product documentation or quality system compliance, they could hold indefinitely the importation of instruments at the border which would deprive us of the ability to sell and supply the majority of our customers until the fda requirements have been satisfied. similar supply disruptions could occur if key suppliers outside of u.s. were to encounter non-conformances with their documentation or quality system compliance. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to provide our products in foreign countries. to be able to provide our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries which may differ substantially from those of the united states. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or to obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. in particular, if the us fda refuses to provide cfgs our ability to register products or renew such registrations may be delayed or denied. the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the authorization to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and have maintained this authorization continuously since that time. from time to time we seek the authorization to affix the ce mark to new or modified products. subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our notified body, dgm. in september 2013 we received notice that dgm has changed their name to presafe following acquisition by a larger notified body. this is expected to have little impact on our operations other than replacement of various quality system certificates with the new name. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark authorizations we have already obtained including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives to enable this path to ce marking. we cannot be certain we will be able to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu and many affiliated countries that accept the ce mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some member states of the european union have additional requirements for registration and notification which may add to the time and effort to obtain market access. in addition, the regulations applied to end users of our products may increase over time, forcing us to provide additional solutions to regulations which do not apply directly to us, but which apply indirectly as they may limit our customers' ability to use our products. in november 2009, we received shonin approval from the japanese ministry of health, labor and welfare ( mhlw ) for our da vinci surgical system and in october 2012, we received approval for our da vinci si system and various associated instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci procedures. we may seek additional approvals for other products and/or procedures, however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, because only a subset of our instruments have received shonin approval, and reimbursement is an additional process to generate market acceptance, it is possible that approved procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. to date, we have received reimbursement approvals in japan for a limited set of procedures and products. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. in addition, in january 2012 we acquired certain assets of our distributor in korea, bio-robotics. our da vinci system was approved in korea in april 2007 and our si system was approved in december 2009. since that time, we have received regulatory approvals for additional instruments and accessories from these regulatory agencies. our products are highly regulated in korea and we face many of the same risks and limitations on the commercialization of our products as in japan and the united states. 27 table of contents if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or other manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, import/export of our products and/or recall some products which would result in significant product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the fda and other regulatory agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr and other regulatory requirements. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization ( iso ) quality system standards as well as european directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in the european union. in addition, many countries such as canada and japan have very specific additional regulatory requirements for quality assurance and manufacturing. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements, as well as iso or other regulatory standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. our last fda inspection occurred in january 2012. the fda did not issue a form fda 483, also known as a notice of inspectional observations, and the establishment inspection report, dated february 29, 2012 has been received. in 2010 the fda issued a form fda 483 listing deficiencies under the qsr relating to complaint handling and manufacturing/inspection handling. we responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions which were thereafter completed and verified. in april of 2013, the fda conducted an inspection of our facilities which resulted in the issuance of a form fda 483 on may 30, 2013. the form fda 483 listed deficiencies in the areas of reporting of field actions, the documentation of our letter to file process and specific observations about design inputs. on july 16, 2013, fda issued a warning letter to intuitive expanding on two of the four observations in the form fda 483 issued may 30, 2013. we responded to the fda form 483 observations and warning letter citations with plans for corrective action and objective evidence of corrections as they are completed. the receipt of a warning letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain fda issued cfgs used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries. in addition, it creates a limitation on the use of so-called special 510(k) regulatory submissions which have a shorter review cycle than traditional 510(k)'s. these limitations are expected to result in delays in the registration of some products in a small number of foreign countries and lengthen the submission cycle for simple changes which are subject to 510(k) clearance. although we have made the closure of the warning letter a top priority and have engaged additional highly qualified outside experts to thoroughly examine and assist in the remediation of the areas cited by the fda in the form fda 483 and warning letter, there can be no guarantee of the timing to clear the warning letter or preclude additional fda requirements or enforcement actions. we continue to be subject to fda and certain other inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. our sunnyvale, california facility is licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we have been subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services food and drug branch and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship some products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in 2012 the state of california announced suspension of routine inspections but this policy could be modified or inspections could be resumed for specific circumstances. in addition, both our sunnyvale, california and mexicali, mexico facilities are subject to periodic inspections by other regulatory bodies, including third party auditors on behalf of national regulatory authorities. compliance with multiple regulatory standards is complex, difficult and costly to maintain, and material deficiencies could result in significant limitations on our ability to manufacture, transport and sell our products in one or more countries. in january 2013, we leased additional manufacturing space in mexicali, mexico and we are in the process of installing manufacturing lines in this new space as well as making changes to the configurations of existing manufacturing space. such changes require various types of regulatory notifications and approvals depending on the country where product manufactured in these buildings is shipped. the process for obtaining those approvals and providing notifications or registrations is underway but delays or limitations could adversely affect our ability to deliver products to certain countries until all required regulatory authorizations are in place. this facility will be subject to the same types of periodic inspections and compliance requirements described above. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to replace our expiring patents, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. we believe new competitors will emerge in medical robotics. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies as older patents expire. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual 28 table of contents property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, our ability to prevent others from using our intellectual property could be adversely affected, resulting in harm to our business. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party's products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be u.s. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present or future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with several industry partners. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure 29 table of contents to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts' or investors' expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. our products typically have a lengthy sales cycle. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2010, the nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $388.01 and a low of $247.50, during fiscal 2011, it reached a high of $466.30 and a low of $267.40, during fiscal 2012, it reached a high of $588.28 and a low of $440.00, and during fiscal 2013, it reached a high of $583.67 and a low of $355.93. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals and enforcement actions; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past, especially recently. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including us have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. 47 table of contents consolidated cash flow data years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 880.0 $ 814.2 $ 677.6 investing activities 259.0 (845.7 ) (479.0 ) financing activities (910.6 ) 119.2 (12.4 ) effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 0.2 (0.2 ) net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 228.4 $ 87.9 $ 186.0 operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2013 , cash flow from operations of $880.0 million exceeded our net income of $671.0 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes, and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $231.0 million during the year ended december 31, 2013. 2. cash used in working capital during the year ended december 31, 2013 was approximately $22.0 million . working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other liabilities. accounts receivable decreased by $68.9 million, or 19%, in 2013 reflecting timing of our system sales. inventory increased by $58.1 million, or 48%, in 2013 due to expanded product offerings and safety stocks acquired for key components. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service revenue that is being recognized as revenue over the service contract period, increased $15.3 million, or 8%, in 2013 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities decreased by $35.1 million in 2013 primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2013. during the year ended december 31, 2012 , cash flow from operations of $814.2 million exceeded our net income of $656.6 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $223.1 million during the year ended december 31, 2012. 2. cash used in working capital during the year ended december 31, 2012 was approximately $65.5 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other liabilities. accounts receivable increased by $68.9 million, or 24%, in 2012 reflecting timing of our system sales. inventory increased by $7.1 million, or 8%, in 2012 due to our business growth, expanded product offerings, and safety stocks acquired for key components. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $30.5 million, or 20%, in 2012 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased by $17.1 million in 2012 primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2012. during the year ended december 31, 2011 , cash flow from operations of $677.6 million exceeded our net income of $495.1 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $202.4 million during the year ended december 31, 2011. 2. cash used in working capital during the year ended december 31, 2011 was approximately $19.9 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other liabilities. inventory increased by $25.3 million or 29% in 2011 due to our business growth, expanded product offerings, and safety stocks acquired for key components. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $28.1 million or 22% in 2011 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $37.8 million or 17% in 2011, primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2011. investing activities net cash provided by investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2013 consisted primarily of proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments (net of purchases of investments) of $363.6 million, less purchases of property and equipment 48 table of contents and licensing of intellectual property of $104.6 million. net cash used in investing activities during the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, consisted primarily of purchases of investments (net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments) of $703.9 million and $396.1 million, respectively, less purchases of property and equipment and licensing of intellectual property of $114.2 million and $82.9 million, respectively. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s. treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and/or tax exempt municipal notes (some of which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, cash deposits and money market funds. we are not a capital-intensive business. financing activities net cash used in financing activities in 2013 consisted primarily of $1,109.2 million used for the repurchase of 2.6 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $160.6 million and excess tax benefits from share-based compensation of $38.0 million. net cash proceeds provided by financing activities in 2012 consisted primarily of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $263.3 million, excess tax benefits from share-based compensation of $94.2 million, offset by $238.3 million used for the repurchase of 0.4 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions. net cash used in financing activities in 2011 consisted primarily of $331.8 million used for the repurchase of 1.0 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $260.6 million and excess tax benefits from share-based compensation of $58.8 million. our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products investments. in 2013, we made substantial investments in our commercial operations, product development activities, facilities and intellectual property. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2013 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years operating leases $ 11.1 $ 4.9 $ 5.2 $ 1.0 purchase commitments and obligations 268.3 268.1 0.2 total contractual obligations $ 279.4 $ 273.0 $ 5.4 $ 1.0 operating leases. we lease office spaces in the u.s., switzerland, mexico, japan, china, and korea. we also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and development arrangements. payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and have not been included in the table above. other commitments. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2013 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. 49 table of contents critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ), which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries and government agencies, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds (some of which may have an auction reset feature). the securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weighted-average maturity of our investments excluding auction rate securities as of december 31, 2013 was approximately 1.3 years. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $7.7 million as of december 31, 2013 . we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. the uncertain financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. as of december 31, 2013 , we held approximately $7.4 million of municipal bonds with an auction reset feature whose underlying assets are student loans that are substantially backed by the federal government. these ars represent less than 1% of our total investment portfolio. in february 2008, the auction market failed and the ars therefore continue to be illiquid. we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. as a result, our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited. if the issuers are unable to service their current obligations, raise funds in the future and/or maintain their credit ratings, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, because a portion of our operations consists of sales activities outside of the u.s., we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s. dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable and currency bank balances. our primary exposure is with the euro. for the year ended december 31, 2013 , sales denominated in foreign currencies were approximately 11% of total revenue. the objective of our hedging program is to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. for the year ended december 31, 2013 , our revenue would have decreased by approximately $8.1 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate would have strengthened by 10%. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies to which we have exposure, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions as of december 31, 2013 would have resulted in a $4.6 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. to mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. we monitor ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust our exposure to various counterparties. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. part i item 1. business in this report, intuitive surgical, intuitive, the company, we, us, and our refer to intuitive surgical, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. intuitive , intuitive surgical , da vinci , da vinci , da vinci si hd surgical system , da vinci hd surgical system , da vinci si , da vinci xi , da vinci si-e , da vinci sp , endowrist , endowrist one , endowrist stapler 45, single-site , firefly , insite , and da vinci connect are trademarks of intuitive surgical, inc. company background intuitive designs, manufactures and markets da vinci surgical systems and related instruments and accessories, which taken together, are advanced surgical systems that we consider an advanced generation of surgery. this advanced generation of surgery, which we call da vinci surgery, combines the benefits of minimally invasive surgery ( mis ) for patients with the ease of use, precision and dexterity of open surgery. a da vinci surgical system consists of a surgeon's console, a patient-side cart, and a high performance vision system. the da vinci surgical system translates a surgeon's natural hand movements, which are performed on instrument controls at a console, into corresponding micro-movements of instruments positioned inside the patient through small incisions, or ports. the da vinci surgical system is designed to provide its operating surgeons with intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability and three dimensional ( 3-d ), high-definition ( hd ) vision while simultaneously allowing surgeons to work through the small ports enabled by mis procedures. da vinci surgery da vinci surgery utilizes computational, robotic and imaging technologies to enable improved patient outcomes compared to other surgical and non-surgical therapies. da vinci surgery is aimed towards advancing the critical surgical ideals of entering the body less invasively, seeing anatomy more clearly, interacting with tissue more precisely and building surgical skills. the da vinci surgical system enables surgeons to avail or improve the benefits of mis to many patients who would otherwise undergo a more invasive surgery. surgeons using the da vinci system operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a 3-d, hd image of the surgical field. this immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. while seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the more intuitive open surgery technique. our multi-port technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions 4 table of contents of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hand. in designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy to use. our systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons: immersive 3-d visualization. our vision system includes a 3-d endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. the da vinci surgical system provides visualization of target anatomy with natural depth-of-field, enhanced contrast and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. with our firefly fluorescence imaging upgrade, surgeons can use specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature or biliary imaging in cholecystectomy beneath tissue surfaces in real-time. precise and tremor-free endoscope control. our imaging system also incorporates our proprietary navigator camera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left and right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image. intuitive instrument movements. our technology is designed to transform the surgeon's natural hand movements outside the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient's body. for example, with the da vinci surgical system, a hand movement to the right outside the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. in contrast, conventional mis instruments are long rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. in conventional mis, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon's hand and surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to translate their hand movements in this backward environment. endowrist instruments. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human hand and wrist. most of our proprietary instruments, which we call endowrist instruments, incorporate wrist joints that enable surgeons to reach behind tissues and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery. scaled, tremor filtered instrument movement. with our technology, the surgeon can also use motion scaling, a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient's body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient's body. motion scaling is designed to allow precision and control for delicate tasks. in addition, our technology filters the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hands. improved surgeon ergonomics. the da vinci surgical system is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. the da vinci surgical system's design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon's console. because the da vinci surgical system's robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue. multi-specialty surgical platform. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures, within our targeted gynecologic, urologic, general surgery, cardiothoracic and head and neck specialties. to date, surgeons have used the da vinci surgical system to perform dozens of different types of surgical procedures. while we do not expect all of these different types of procedures to become widely adopted, they demonstrate the flexibility of the da vinci surgical system in approaching anatomy. advanced training tools. surgeons can efficiently train and improve their da vinci surgery skills with a group of tools unique to robotic surgery, including our da vinci skills simulator for software based skills practice and assessment, our da vinci dual console for inter-operative collaboration, and our da vinci connect networking technology for on-line proctoring. products: da vinci surgical system we have commercialized four generations of da vinci surgical system the da vinci xi surgical system, the da vinci si surgical system, the da vinci surgical system and the standard da vinci surgical system. da vinci surgical systems are comprised of the following components: surgeon's console . the da vinci surgical system allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic console viewing a 3-d image of the surgical field. the surgeon's fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with the surgeon's hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. using electronic hardware, software, algorithms and mechanics, our technology translates the surgeon's hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of the endowrist instruments positioned inside the patient. on our most current systems, da vinci xi and da vinci si , a second surgeon's console may be used in two possible ways: to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or to act as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. with the da vinci xi and da vinci si , a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of 5 table of contents the da vinci instruments during the surgery. in addition, surgeons can control 3-d virtual pointers to augment the dual surgeon experience. patient-side cart . the patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the patient. up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned as appropriate, and then locked into place. at least two arms hold our endowrist instruments, one representing the surgeon's left hand and one representing the surgeon's right hand. a third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. an optional fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a third endowrist instrument to perform additional tasks. the fourth instrument arm is a standard integrated feature on the da vinci xi, si, and surgical systems and is available as an upgrade on three-arm da vinci surgical systems and da vinci si-e surgical systems. 3-d vision system. our vision system includes our insite 3-d endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. the resulting 3-d image has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker and low cross fading. a digital zoom feature in the 3-d, hd vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and thereby reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. the 3-d, hd vision is a standard integrated feature on da vinci xi, si, and surgical systems. da vinci skills simulator . the skills simulator is a practice tool that gives a user the opportunity to practice his or her facility with the surgeon console controls. the skills simulator incorporates 3-d, physics-based computer simulation technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment. the user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. upon completion of a skills exercise, the skills simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. the skills simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for the da vinci xi and si surgical systems. most da vinci skills simulators have been sold in connection with new da vinci xi and si surgical systems. firefly fluorescence imaging . in the first quarter of 2011, we launched our firefly product for use with the da vinci si surgical system. firefly is a standard feature of the da vinci xi surgical system. this imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da vinci camera head, endoscope and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy. adoption of firefly is progressing with use across the categories of urology, gynecology and general surgery. in september 2013, we received u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) 510(k) clearance to market our firefly fluorescence imaging product for real-time imaging of bile ducts (cystic duct, common bile duct and common hepatic duct). standard da vinci system. during 2014, we phased out the sale of all instrument, accessory and service contract offerings for the standard da vinci surgical system. instruments and accessories endowrist instruments . we manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate wrist joints for natural dexterity, with tips customized for various surgical procedures. endowrist instruments are offered in a variety of sizes, of which 5mm and 8mm diameter sizes are the most commonly sold. at their tips, the various endowrist instruments include forceps, scissors, electrocautery, scalpels, and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon from open surgery and conventional mis. a variety of endowrist instruments are selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. our endowrist instruments are sterilizable and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. a programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the system and instruments work together. in addition, the chip will not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. we typically develop new types of endowrist instruments to support additional types of surgical procedures. da vinci single-site. da vinci single-site is a set of non-wristed instruments (except for wristed needle driver discussed below) and accessories that allow surgical systems to work through a single incision, typically in the umbilicus, rather than multiple incisions. single incision surgery is intended to minimize trauma to patients by reducing the number of ports required to enter the body and is typically utilized for less complex surgery than multi-port surgery. non-robotic single incision surgery today is typically performed with modified laparoscopic instruments. early clinical adoption of this manual technique has been mostly positive; however, physicians have reported that manual single incision surgery is technically and ergonomically challenging. da vinci single-site instruments and accessories were designed to address these issues. in february 2011, we received the ce mark for our da vinci single-site instrument kit for da vinci si surgical systems and began selling these new products in europe. the majority of da vinci single-site procedures performed in europe to date has been cholecystectomies. in december 2011, we received fda regulatory clearance to market our single-site instrumentation in the u.s. for laparoscopic cholecystectomy procedures for da vinci si surgical systems. in february 2013, we received fda clearance to market our da vinci single-site instruments for benign hysterectomy and salpingo oophorectomy procedures. in september 2014, we received fda clearance to market the wristed version of our da vinci 6 table of contents single-site needle driver product for use on benign hysterectomy, cholecystectomy, and salpingo-oophorectomy procedures on da vinci si surgical systems. we are encouraged by hospital, surgeon, and patient interest in da vinci single-site, and believe this instrument may have particular utility in benign hysterectomy procedures. however, these are our first products targeted towards procedures already highly penetrated by manual mis techniques, and we are not able to predict the extent or pace that da vinci single-site may be adopted. endowrist one vessel sealer . in december 2011, we received fda clearance for our endowrist one vessel sealer for da vinci si surgical systems. the endowrist one vessel sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7 mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. this instrument enables surgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of da vinci surgery. this instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures. clinical response to the endowrist one vessel sealer has been encouraging, with positive commentary on precision, articulation, vessel sealing quality and thermal spread, and we expect applications for the endowrist one vessel sealer to be centered on general surgery and gynecologic oncology procedures. endowrist one vessel sealer utilization rates have increased steadily in 2013 and 2014. in june 2014, we received fda clearance for the da vinci xi version of the endowrist one vessel sealer. endowrist stapler 45 instrument . in october 2012, we received fda clearance for our endowrist stapler 45 instrument with blue and green 45 mm reloads for da vinci si surgical systems. the endowrist stapler 45 is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection and/or creation of anastomoses in general, gynecologic and urologic surgery. this instrument enables surgeons to precisely position and fire the stapler. its initial surgical use has been directed towards colorectal procedures. during 2013, the endowrist stapler was used by a limited and gradually increasing number of customers. in 2014, we expanded the availability of the endowrist stapler to a broadening set of customers. in september 2014, we notified our customers to suspend the use of the endowrist stapler 45 (see recalls and corrections section for additional discussion). although our early customer experiences have been positive, we are in the early stages of selling endowrist stapler 45, and we are not able to predict the extent to which the instrument may be adopted. accessory products . we sell various accessory products which are used in conjunction with the da vinci surgical system as surgical procedures are performed. accessory products include sterile drapes used to ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products such as replacement 3-d stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other items that facilitate use of the system. business strategy our objective is to bring the benefits of mis to as many patients as possible through the use of computer aided robotic technologies. our priorities to accomplish this are as follows: 1. patient value. we believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as: patient value = procedure efficacy/invasiveness . we define procedure efficacy as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness as how disruptive and painful the treatment is itself. when the patient value of a da vinci procedure is deemed higher than alternate treatment options, patients may seek out surgeons and hospitals that offer that specific da vinci procedure, potentially resulting in a local market share shift for the specific treatment. adoption occurs procedure by procedure, and is driven by the relative patient value of da vinci procedures compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state. we believe most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. our goal is to provide products to surgeons who in turn provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options. 2. surgeon value. we train surgeons on the use of our da vinci surgical system and assist them in building their practices by their delivery of superior patient value. we provide an ergonomic platform for surgeons to perform their procedures. we seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy to use products. 3. hospital value. we assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value using da vinci thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced length of patient stay. da vinci surgery is a cost effective approach to many surgeries as compared to alternative treatment options as demonstrated in many published studies. given the priorities above, our strategy is to improve our target surgical procedures in one or more of the following ways: 1. convert target open procedures to da vinci urgery. we believe that our technology has the potential to convert a significant percentage of our targeted open procedures to da vinci surgery. 2. facilitate difficult mis operations. we believe that several surgical procedures that are seldom performed today using conventional mis techniques can be performed more routinely using da vinci surgery. some procedures have been adopted using mis techniques but are extremely difficult and are currently performed by a limited number of highly skilled surgeons. we believe our da vinci surgical system will enable more surgeons at more institutions to perform such procedures. 7 table of contents 3. offer a less invasive single port surgical option. we believe that our da vinci single site technology has the potential to convert target procedures typically performed via multiport laparoscopic technique to single port da vinci surgery, offering patients less invasive, improved cosmetic outcomes. clinical applications we are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and applications for da vinci surgery an important part of our creative process. we primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value, surgeon value, and hospital value. we currently focus on five surgical specialties: urologic surgery, gynecologic surgery, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. key procedures which we are focused on include da vinci prostatectomy ( dvp ), da vinci hysterectomy ( dvh ), da vinci cholecystectomy, da vinci colon and rectal procedures, da vinci partial nephrectomy, da vinci sacrocolpopexy, da vinci mitral valve repair, da vinci lobectomy, and da vinci transoral robotic surgery (for cancers of the throat). in 2014 , total u.s. procedure volume was approximately 449,000 , of which 20% was in urology, 52% was in gynecology, and 24% was in general surgery. international procedure volume was approximately 121,000 in 2014, of which most procedures were in urology. representative surgical applications are described below. urologic surgery prostatectomy. radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. the standard approach to removal of the prostate has been via an open surgical procedure. the conventional laparoscopic approach is an option, but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. the da vinci surgical system has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique. partial nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor). partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. excluding da vinci surgery, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy, and hand assisted laparoscopy, which is a hybrid of open and laparoscopic technique. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients. treatment guidelines for patients with localized renal cancer recommend partial nephrectomy due to the benefits nephron-sparing surgery has in long-term patient outcomes. published clinical literature has shown that the presence of a da vinci surgical system is associated with a higher-proportion of patients receiving guideline-recommended partial nephrectomy. gynecologic surgery hysterectomy. removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and is performed for a variety of underlying benign and malignant conditions. hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy), or mis techniques, which include vaginal, laparoscopic, and robotic approaches. despite the availability of non-robotic mis approaches to hysterectomy, most hysterectomies performed prior to da vinci surgery were open surgeries. da vinci surgery has enabled a large number of women to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an alternative to an open hysterectomy. during the first quarter of 2013, single-site instruments were fda cleared in the u.s. for use in benign hysterectomies and salpingo oophorectomies. in september 2014, we received fda clearance to market the wristed version of our single-site needle driver product for use on benign hysterectomy, cholecystectomy, and salpingo-oophorectomy procedures. single-site instruments enable surgeons to perform surgery through a single port via the patient's belly button, allowing for virtually scarless results. sacrocolpopexy. the abdominal (open) sacrocolpopexy is one of the most successful operations for vaginal vault prolapse. sacrocolpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). a sacrocolpopexy can be performed using conventional laparoscopic technique; however, it is generally described as difficult and cumbersome to perform. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of sacrocolpopexy patients. cardiothoracic surgery mitral valve repair. when patients are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient's post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen. because mitral valve repairs are considered to be more technically challenging than mitral valve replacements, they are only performed 8 table of contents approximately 50% of the time. several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when using the da vinci surgical system. thoracic surgery. conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision, and esophagectomy. many thoracic procedures remain open procedures. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients. general surgery cholecystectomy. cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of the gall bladder, is a commonly performed general surgery procedure. cholecystectomy is the primary method for the treatment of gallstones and other gall bladder diseases. most cholecystectomies are performed using multi-port mis techniques, although some surgeons choose to perform cholecystectomy using manual single-port instrumentation. with the 2011 european introduction of da vinci single-site instruments followed by the u.s. introduction in 2012, single-site robotic cholecystectomies are now being performed. using da vinci single-site instruments, many of the technical challenges of manual single-port mis are reduced as surgeons benefit from additional precision, control, and improved ergonomics. multi-port robotic cholecystectomies are also being performed. colorectal surgery. these procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular the rectum or colon. common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection, and abdominoperineal resection. conventional laparoscopy is not widely employed to treat these types of diseases, due to their high degree of difficulty. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in colorectal surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients. hernia repair. a hernia occurs when an organ or fatty tissue squeezes through a weak spot in a surrounding muscle or connective fascia tissue. during a hernia repair surgery, the weakened abdominal wall tissue is secured and defects are repaired. common types of hernia are ventral and inguinal. ventral, or abdominal hernia, may occur through a scar after surgery in the abdomen. inguinal hernia is a bulge in the groin and is more common in men. hernia repair can be performed using traditional open surgery or minimally invasive surgery. there is a wide-range of complexity in hernia repair surgeries and the benefits of minimally invasive and robotic surgery varies by patient. da vinci hernia repair is associated with low rates of recurrence, pain, and conversion to open surgery as well as shorter hospital stays. gastric bypass. a body of literature has emerged pointing to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its secondary effects, such as diabetes. laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass ( lrygb ) is the most commonly performed surgical procedure for morbid obesity in the u.s. the lrygb can be a technically challenging procedure because of the suturing, stapling, and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. surgeons using the da vinci surgical system have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to lrygb. head and neck surgery transoral surgery. head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation, or a combination of both. surgical resection performed by an open approach may require a jaw-splitting mandibulotomy. this procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. mis approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated by conventional endoscopic tools. chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions; however, literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients' ability to speak and swallow normally. surgeons have reported that da vinci transoral surgery allows them to treat cancers occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line-of-sight limitations of conventional transoral surgery. procedure mix our procedure business is now splitting into two categories: (1) cancer and other highly complex procedures and (2) less complex benign procedures. our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economic solutions in each of these categories. more fully featured products targeted towards the more complex procedure segment include 4-arm, dual console, firefly enabled systems and advanced instruments including vessel sealing and stapler. lower priced products targeted towards the less complex segment of procedures include the three-arm da vinci si-e system and lower priced single-site instruments. clinical summary we believe there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the da vinci surgical system and we work closely with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in which da vinci may bring value. as of december 31, 2014 , we had an installed base of 3,266 da vinci surgical systems, including 2,223 in the u.s., 549 in europe, 193 in japan, and 9 table of contents 301 in the rest of the world. we estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 570,000 surgical procedures of various types in hospitals throughout the world during the year ended december 31, 2014 . of those da vinci procedures performed in 2014 , we estimate that approximately 203,000 were dvh procedures and approximately 125,000 were dvp procedures. sales and customer support sales model we provide our products through a direct sales organization in the u.s.; most of western europe excluding spain, portugal, italy and greece; japan and korea. beginning in 2013, we established a direct sales structure in the czech republic, slovakia, and hungary. beginning in june 2014, we also established a direct sales structure in japan. these markets were served by distributors prior to us establishing direct sales structures. in the remainder of our world markets, we provide our products through distributors. no one customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . our direct sales organization is composed of a capital sales team, responsible for selling da vinci surgical systems, and a clinical sales team, responsible for supporting da vinci surgical system use in surgical procedures performed at our hospital accounts. the initial da vinci surgical system sale into an account is viewed as a major capital equipment purchase by our customers and typically has a lengthy sales cycle that can be affected by macroeconomic factors, capital spending prioritization, and the timing of budgeting cycles. capital sales activities include educating surgeons and hospital staff across multiple surgical specialties on the benefits of da vinci surgery and the clinical applications that our technology enables. we also train our sales organization to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including clinical benefits of da vinci surgery, reductions in complications and length of stay, and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction, surgeon recruitment, and volume. our clinical sales team works on site at the hospitals, interacting with surgeons, operating room staff, and hospital administrators to develop and sustain successful robotics surgery programs. they assist the hospital in identifying surgeons who have an interest in robotic surgery delivering da vinci's benefits. our clinical sales team provides the current clinical information on robotic surgery practices and new product applications to the hospital teams and has grown with the expanded installed base of da vinci surgical systems and the total number of procedures performed. we expect this organization to continue to grow as our business expands. our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. orders received are typically shipped within one business day. direct customers who purchase a new da vinci surgical system typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories within one month of receiving their system. our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first and third fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. in addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarter. procedures treating benign conditions are typically higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth impact the timing of instrument and accessory and capital purchases. customer support and training programs we have a network of field service engineers across the u.s., europe, and asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. this infrastructure of service and support specialists offer a full complement of services, including 24/7 support, installation, repair, and maintenance for our customers. we generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs. we provide basic system training that teaches the fundamental operating principles of the da vinci surgical system to surgeons, surgical assistants, and operating room nurses. we have established training centers where initial system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. surgeons may also practice their robotic surgery technique using our da vinci skills simulator. in addition, we help facilitate the proctoring of surgeons who are new to da vinci surgery by experienced da vinci surgical system users. proctors provide training to other surgeons on how to perform certain surgical procedures with da vinci surgical systems. research and development we focus our research and development efforts on providing our customers with new products and product improvements that enable them to perform mis procedures with less difficulty. we employ research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. we invested $178.0 million , $167.7 million , and $170.0 million of research and development expenses for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , respectively. we establish strategic alliances with other medical device and technology based companies to complement our research and development effort. to date, these alliances have taken several forms, including cooperation in the areas of product development, 10 table of contents training, procedure development, and marketing activities. we have formed alliances with several companies, including, but not limited to, erbe elektromedizin gmbh, johnson &amp; johnson, olympus/gyrus, novadaq technologies, inc., and mimic technologies, inc. manufacturing we manufacture our da vinci surgical systems at our facility in sunnyvale, california. we manufacture our instruments at our sunnyvale facility and mexicali, mexico facility. we purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). we purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods. competition we consider our primary competition to be existing open surgery, conventional mis, drug therapies, radiation treatment, and emerging interventional surgical approaches. our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability as well as educating hospitals, surgeons and patients on the demonstrated results associated with da vinci surgery and its value relative to other techniques. we also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the mis market. we believe that many are focused on adding capability to manual mis systems. because many of these developments are aimed at mis, we believe that our da vinci surgical system may prove complementary to some of these new technologies. moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g., single-site , stapler, and vessel sealer) that compete with product offerings traditionally within the domains of open surgery and/or conventional mis, we face greater competition from larger and well established companies such as ethicon endo-surgery, inc. furthermore, as da vinci use increases, a number of companies may be compelled to enter the field of robotic surgery. the following companies have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field: johnson &amp; johnson, medrobotics corp., meerecompany inc., medtronic plc, olympus corp., sofar s.p.a., imris inc., transenterix, inc., and titan medical, inc. companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. in addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. our revenues may be adversely impacted if our competitors develop and introduce products that compete in our markets. intellectual property we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes. we generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. for example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. we also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own large and robust patent portfolio. as of december 31, 2014 , we held ownership or exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 1,700 u.s. and foreign patents and more than 1,500 u.s. and foreign patent applications. we intend to continue filing new patent applications in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology. patents are granted for finite terms and eventually expire. upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a patent enter the public domain. while our patents are an important element of our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. government regulation our products and operations are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the fda, the state of california and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate compliance to these with the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to meet these standards could limit the ability to market our products in those regions which require compliance to such standards. examples of groups of such standards are electrical safety standards such as those of the international electrotechnical commission (e.g. iec 60601-ss series of standards) and composition standards such as the reduction of hazardous substances ( rohs ) and waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directives. 11 table of contents united states the fda regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing, distribution, and service of medical devices in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in addition, the fda regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the u.s. to international markets and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad. under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act ( ffdca ), medical devices are classified into one of three classes class i, class ii or class iii depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. our current products are class ii medical devices. class ii devices are those which are subject to general controls and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the fda, and clearance by the fda. premarket review and clearance by the fda for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process. unless a class ii device is exempt from premarket review, the manufacturer must submit to the fda a premarket notification submission demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent in intended use and technology to a predicate device that is either: 1. a device that has grandfather marketing status because it was legally marketed prior to may 28, 1976, the date upon which the medical device amendments of 1976 were enacted, or 2. a device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process. if the fda agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the u.s. the fda has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission, or a guidance-based 30-day period for special 510(k) submissions which have a more restrictive scope and generally involve more specific or very limited changes to a legally marketed device. as a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. the fda may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. if the fda determines that the device, or its intended use, is not substantially equivalent, the fda may deny the request for clearance. although unlikely for the types of products marketed by us, the fda may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into class iii, and the device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-market approval ( pma ) requirements. a pma application, which is intended to demonstrate that a device is safe and effective, must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. the fda, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review a pma application, though the review more often occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. in approving a pma application or clearing a 510(k) submission, the fda may also require some form of post-market surveillance when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. in such cases, the manufacturer might be required to follow certain patient groups for a number of years and makes periodic reports to the fda on the clinical status of those patients. after a device receives fda 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pma application approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make the determination of whether a modification requires a new 510(k) notification or pma application in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer's decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or pma approval for a particular change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease u.s. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. in addition, after a device is placed on the market, numerous fda and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. these include establishment registration and device listing with the fda; compliance with medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may present a risk to health. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the u.s. have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the fda's good manufacturing practice ( gmp ) requirements contained in its quality system regulation ( qsr ) and associated regulations and guidance. the qsr covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with fda regulation, the manufacturer's own procedures, specifications and testing as well as distribution and postmarket experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market 12 table of contents new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the u.s. a company's facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the fda, which may issue reports known as forms fda 483 or notices of inspectional observations which list instances where the fda inspector believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if the observations are sufficiently serious or the manufacturer fails to respond appropriately, the fda may issue warning letters, or untitled letters, which are notices of intended enforcement actions against the manufacturer. if a warning letter or untitled letter is not addressed to the satisfaction of the fda, or if the fda becomes aware of any other serious issue with a manufacturer's products or facilities, it could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the u.s., and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. in the u.s., routine fda inspections usually occur every two years, and may occur more often for cause. an fda inspection of our facilities occurred in april-may 2013 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing four observations relating to the reporting of field corrections, information which is to be included on reports of field corrections, written procedures for changes to certain product labeling, and design input documentation. we responded to each observation with corrective actions during the course of the inspection and provided additional evidence of corrective actions to the fda in response to the form fda 483. the fda issued a warning letter on july 16, 2013 related to two of the four form fda 483 observations asking for additional corrective actions, and its intent to perform a follow-up inspection. in addition, the fda collected electronic samples of all our advertising and promotional material for review, and to date has taken no action in connection therewith. we responded to the warning letter, communicating corrective actions taken. the fda re-inspected our facilities during february-march of 2014 to complete a general quality system audit as well as a review of the status of the warning letter and 483 remediation activities. at the end of the inspection, the fda issued a form fda 483 listing five observations related to quality management system improvement opportunities. we responded to the fda with a corrective action plan for those observations. on april 25, 2014, we received a closure letter from the fda stating that the observations in the july 16, 2013 warning letter had been addressed, and on april 25, 2014, we also received an establishment inspection report (eir) confirming close-out of the fda inspection. although the fda did not indicate whether it reviewed the promotional materials previously collected, we believe that the fda's review of these materials and all other 2013 findings are now closed based on receipt of both the warning letter close-out and the eir. to a greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include periodic inspections, inspections by third party auditors, and specialized documentation. failure to meet all the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support and receive reimbursement for the use of our products in these countries. in addition to the above, we may seek to conduct clinical research on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for particular indications in clinical studies or trials in the u.s. or other countries. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such investigational use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board ( irb ). failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject the company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot assure that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. products manufactured outside the u.s. by or for us are subject to u.s. customs and fda inspection upon entry into the u.s. we must demonstrate compliance of such products to u.s. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays. california regulation the state of california requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and until 2012 conducted periodic inspections of medical device manufacturers. our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in july 2011 and were found to be in compliance. in accordance with the state of california regulations, the license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information. although the state of california has announced suspension of routine periodic inspections, there can be no assurance the state of california will not resume such inspections or conduct such inspections under specific circumstances which are not yet known. 13 table of contents foreign regulation in order for us to market our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations in other countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. some countries have regulatory review processes which are substantially longer than u.s. processes. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive regulatory ( shonin ) approval. in october 2012, we obtained from the japanese ministry of health, labor, and welfare ("mhlw") approval for our da vinci si surgical systems. effective april 2012, we obtained national reimbursement for dvp procedures, our only reimbursed procedure in japan to date. we are currently seeking reimbursement for additional procedures through the mhlw's senshin iryo process as well as other alternative reimbursement processes. such approvals require in-country clinical data and are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years. no additional procedures were granted in the april 2014 cycle. we are currently working with the japanese surgical societies to gather the necessary data on additional procedures for mhlw consideration in the april 2016 cycle. if we are not successful in obtaining additional regulatory clearances, importation licenses, and adequate procedure reimbursements for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products in japan could be limited. commercialization of medical devices in europe is regulated by the european union ( eu ). the eu presently requires that all medical products bear the conformit europ enne ( ce ) mark, for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and performance mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu and those affiliated which accept the ce mark. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to affix the ce mark on products, a recognized european notified body must certify a manufacturer's quality system and design dossier for compliance with international and european requirements. we have received authorization from dgm denmark a/s, a recognized european notified body and part of nemko presafe a/s, to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and accessories. to maintain authorization to apply the ce mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. as of 2014, notified bodies, including dgm, are also required to conduct periodic unannounced inspections. if we modify our existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu or those whose marketing authorizations are based on the ce mark. regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. certain countries have their own regulatory agencies, such as china and korea. these regulations typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. in addition, local regulations may apply which govern the use of our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. all such regulations are revised from time to time and in general are increasing in complexity, and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing required. there can be no assurance the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. there are further regulations governing the importation, marketing, sale, distribution, use and service as well as the removal and disposal of medical devices. failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions, fines and prevent us from marketing our products in these regions. other healthcare laws we are also subject to federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency and privacy and security laws and regulations. these laws include: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the medicare and medicaid programs. a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal anti-kickback statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting 14 table of contents from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims act; federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary's decision to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier; federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; the federal physician payment sunshine act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under medicare, medicaid or the children's health insurance program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to cms information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and requires applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to cms ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members and payments or other transfers of value to such physician owners. manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year; and analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. if our operations are found to violate any of the laws described above or any other laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to market our products and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. third-party coverage and reimbursement in the u.s. and most international markets where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all covered surgical procedures. governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and physicians for surgery when the procedure is considered medically necessary. in the u.s., the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ) administers the medicare and medicaid programs (the latter, along with applicable state governments). many other third-party payors model their reimbursement methodologies after the medicare program. as the single largest payor, this program has a significant impact on other payors' payment systems. generally, reimbursement for professional services performed at a facility by physicians is reported under billing codes issued by the american medical association ( ama ), known as current procedural terminology ( cpt ) codes. physician reimbursement under medicare generally is based on a fee schedule and determined by the relative values of the professional service rendered. in addition, cms and the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to billing codes known as icd-9-cm procedural codes used by hospitals to report inpatient procedures. for medicare, cms generally reimburses hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay based on a prospective payment system that is determined by a classification system known as medicare-severity diagnostic related groupings ( ms-drgs ). ms-drgs are assigned using a number of factors including the principal diagnosis, major procedures, discharged status, patient age and complicating secondary diagnoses among other things. hospital outpatient services, reported by cpt codes, are assigned to clinically relevant ambulatory payment classifications ( apcs ) used to determine the payment amount for services provided. on october 1, 2008, cms and nchs issued a new family of icd-9-cm procedure codes for robotically assisted procedures. for laparoscopic procedures completed with the da vinci surgical system, u.s. hospitals are expected to report the 15 table of contents primary surgical procedure code, along with icd-9-cm 17.42, to describe a laparoscopic robotic assisted procedure. the purpose of the icd-9-cm family of procedure codes, 17.4x, is to gather data on robotic assisted surgical procedures. at this time, it does not appear that these codes will be available after october 1, 2015, when the icd-10 code sets are implemented. a surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the clinically relevant ms-drg. governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, contract terms, and other factors. because both hospitals and physicians may receive the same reimbursement for their respective services, with or without robotics, regardless of actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care, including for the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products. domestic institutions typically bill for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. because our da vinci surgical system has been cleared for commercial distribution in the u.s. by the fda, coverage and reimbursement by payors are generally determined by the medical necessity of the primary surgical procedure. we believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies for appropriately selected patients. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. in countries outside the u.s., reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. in most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. in addition, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain european countries. to effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek international reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. in some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such co-pay practices are not common in most countries. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), which makes changes that significantly impact healthcare providers, insurers, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. one of the principal aims of the ppaca is to expand health insurance coverage to americans who are currently uninsured. the consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are currently unknown. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund this coverage expansion, including, but not limited to new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. since 2013, medical device manufacturers have been required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% on certain u.s. medical device revenues. under this provision, the company has incurred an excise tax of approximately $16 million in 2014. the tax is included as a cost of revenue and a reduction of product gross profit margin. the ppaca also has provisions to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. it remains unclear how this research will influence future medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions, as well as influence other third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies. as congress and state governments determine how to implement the ppaca, the full impact of the ppaca on the medical device industry and the sale of our products is currently unknown. the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the taxes imposed by ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits, lower reimbursement from payors for procedures that use our products and/or reduced procedural volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. more recently, on august 2, 2011, the u.s. president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. this included aggregate reductions of 2% per fiscal year of medicare payments to providers, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would affect our ability to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. 16 table of contents employees as of december 31, 2014 , we had 2,978 employees, 342 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 1,106 in manufacturing and service and 1,530 in marketing, sales, and administrative activities. none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. general we make our periodic and current reports, including our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, our code of business conduct and ethics policy and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission (the "sec"). our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com and the reports are filed under sec filings, on the company investor relations portion of our website. periodically, we webcast company announcements, product launch events and executive presentations which can be viewed via our investor relations pages on our website. in addition, we provide notifications of our material news including sec filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our investor relations website. the contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. the public may read and copy any materials filed by the company with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, room 1580, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. the contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. further, references to the urls for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. we operate our business as one segment as defined by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. our financial results for the year ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 are discussed in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this annual report. intuitive surgical, inc. was founded in 1995. we are a delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1020 kifer road, sunnyvale, california 94086. our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com . item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors' acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could materially adversely affect our company. during 2008 and 2009, the global economy experienced a severe downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, the credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. more recently, credit and sovereign debt issues destabilized certain european economies and thereby contributed to global macroeconomic uncertainties. uncertainty about current global economic conditions continue to pose a risk as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints 17 table of contents on credit. there could be additional effects from adverse conditions in the credit markets on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays, and the inability of our customers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if economic conditions worsen or if the improved economic conditions are slower than anticipated, our forecasted demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability, and the market price of our stock. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors' products or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a relatively new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than da vinci surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. in addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. for example, sofar s.p.a, an italian medical device company, supported by the european commission's joint research centre, has developed a telesurgical robot system. other competitors have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. as a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we expect gross profit margins to vary over time, and changes in our gross profit margins could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our gross profit margins have fluctuated from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. our gross profit margins may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of da vinci surgical system models sold; changes in the portion of sales involving a trade-in of another system and the amount of trade-in credits given; introduction of new products, which may have lower margins than our existing products; our ability to maintain or reduce production costs; changes to our pricing strategy; changes in competition; changes in production volume driven by demand for our products; changes in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs; inventory obsolescence and product recall charges; and market conditions. if we are unable to offset the unfavorable impact of the factors noted above by increasing the volume of products shipped, reducing product manufacturing costs or otherwise, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we experience long and variable capital sales cycles and seasonality in our business, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government 18 table of contents bodies, as applicable. this approval process can be lengthy. in addition, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines. further, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. as a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first and third fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. recently, we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpopexies, hernia repair, and certain other surgeries. many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. historically, we have experienced lower procedure counts in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure counts in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases by customers. the above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. international sales account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our international activities. our business currently depends in part on our activities in international markets. revenue from markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 30% , 28% , and 21% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. these challenges include: failure to obtain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the united states; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products; inability or regulatory limitations on our ability to move goods across borders; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-u.s. operations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building and maintaining an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. a large portion of our international sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in international markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, which subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. in addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them. please see our risk factor below titled unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. the actions of our distributors may affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if the distributor holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance. it may be difficult, expensive and time consuming for us to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance in such case. we are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers, which could result in material losses. we believe customer financing through leasing is an important consideration for some of our customers and have experienced an increase in demand for customer financing. we may experience loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to 19 table of contents the contract terms. our exposure to the credit risks relating to our lease financing arrangements may increase if our customers are adversely affected by changes in healthcare laws, coverage and reimbursement, economic pressures or uncertainty, or other customer-specific factors. although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing credit risks relating to these lease financing arrangements. although we have not experienced significant credit losses to date, should the level of credit losses we experience in the future exceed our expectations, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily for the euro, japanese yen, korean won, and the british pound. we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary based on our assessment of the relevant risks, opportunities and expenses. our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and computer software, any of which may contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems. we cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors, or performance problems in the future. if we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products that could be expensive, divert management's attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims, which are inherent to the medical device industry. product liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class. we currently are subject to product liability claims, which are described in more detail in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, and which have been brought by individuals alleging that they have sustained personal injuries and/or death as a result of purported product defects, the alleged failure to warn, and/or the alleged inadequate training by us of physicians regarding the use of the da vinci surgical system. the individuals who have brought the product liability claims seek recovery for the alleged personal injuries and in many cases, punitive damages. current product liability claims have resulted in negative publicity regarding our company, and these and any other product liability or negligence claims or product recalls also could harm our reputation. please see our risk factor below titled negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues for additional risks related to the potential effects of negative publicity on our business. the outcome of product liability litigation is inherently uncertain and difficult to quantify, and the magnitude of potential damages, if any, may not be known for a substantial period of time. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover current or future claims. particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. in addition, current 20 table of contents or future product liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal costs (including settlements, judgments, legal fees, and other related defense costs). it is possible that future legal costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. there have been articles published and papers written questioning patient safety and efficacy associated with da vinci surgery, the cost of da vinci surgery relative to other disease management methods, and the adequacy of surgeon training. negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. in addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, regardless of whether these claims are meritorious. the number of claims could be further increased by plaintiffs' law firms that use a wide variety of media to advertise their services and solicit clients for product liability cases against us. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings, including purported class action and derivative lawsuits and product liability litigation, are described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. the results of these lawsuits and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. accordingly, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses related to these lawsuits and proceedings. in addition, as described in more detail in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, certain product liability insurers have instituted legal proceedings to rescind the company's products liability insurance. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. if we do not prevail in the purported class action and derivative lawsuit, product liability litigation, or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to significant, uninsured liabilities. for certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. for example, we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not insure for the underlying losses, and we do not carry earthquake insurance, among other types of coverage that we do not maintain. in addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors' and officers' insurance or products liability insurance may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases self-insure completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we (or our critical suppliers) may encounter difficulties in scaling up or maintaining production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; import or export restrictions on components, materials or technology; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged. 21 table of contents our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. in the united states, hospitals generally bill for the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled recently enacted healthcare legislation reforming the u.s. healthcare system, as well as future reforms, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. for example, the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan and their aftermath created economic uncertainty and disrupted economic activities in japan, including a reduction in hospital spending. our corporate headquarters and many of our operations, including certain of our manufacturing facilities, are located in california, a seismically active region. we do not have multiple-site capacity for all of the operations in the event of a business disruption. a natural disaster in any of our major markets could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. epidemic diseases or the perception of their effect could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as the ebola virus could divert medical resources and priorities towards the treatment of that disease. an outbreak of a contagious disease could also negatively affect hospital admission rates. this could negatively impact the number of da vinci procedures performed and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. 22 table of contents if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or our business may be harmed. we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, we acquired certain intellectual property, know-how, and employees from luna innovations, inc. in january 2014 and reacquired the japan distribution rights from our japanese distributor in june 2014. if we are unable to effectively transition the sales, marketing, regulatory and other operational functions in japan, our japanese business could be disrupted. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. an acquired company may have deficiencies in product quality or regulatory marketing authorizations which are not detected during due diligence activities or which are unasserted at the time of acquisition. it may be difficult, expensive and time consuming for us to re-establish market access, regulatory compliance or cure such deficiencies in product quality in such cases. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the reevaluation of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. we use estimates, make judgments and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. as these estimates, judgments, and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time may lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. in addition, we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes and number of da vinci procedures completed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. our estimates of surgical market sizes or number of da vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations but are used to estimate the progress of our business. estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and number of da vinci procedures may vary over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee and other factors. in addition, from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and number of da vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting. changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations a number of factors may impact our future effective tax rate including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits and deductions; changes in share-based compensation; 23 table of contents changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could harm net income for future periods. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. our business requires us to use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information ( pii ). this may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. we require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. we also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. these security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. while we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. we may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service and may harm our business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of pii, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of our products and services could decrease. we would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. risks relating to our regulatory environment recently enacted healthcare legislation reforming the u.s. healthcare system, as well as future reforms, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the "ppaca"), which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. one of the principal aims of the ppaca as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million americans who are currently uninsured. the consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are unknown and speculative at this point. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions among other things. this includes new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain u.s. medical device revenues. though there are some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax does apply to all or most of our products sold within the united states. the ppaca also establishes a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee and identify priorities in comparative clinical effectiveness research in an effort to coordinate and develop such research; implements payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians, and other providers to improve the coordination, quality, and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models; and creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. the ppaca provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research also extend the initiatives of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, known as the stimulus package, which included $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. this stimulus funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or reviewing research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products. the ppaca appropriates additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research. although congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it remains unclear how the research will impact current medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies. the taxes imposed by the ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased 24 table of contents profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. more recently, on august 2, 2011, the u.s. president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. this included aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013, and will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. we expect that additional state and federal health care reform measures may be adopted in the future, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on certain development projects. the u.s. government has in the past considered, is currently considering and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. state and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted similar types of policies. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the united states or elsewhere, and current uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. we are unable to predict whether other healthcare policies, including policies stemming from legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect such policies would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act requires us to track and disclose the source of any tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten used in manufacturing which may originate in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining regions (so called conflict minerals ). these metals are central to the technology industry and are present in some of our products as component parts. in most cases no acceptable alternative material exists which has the necessary properties. because it is not possible to determine the source of the metals by analysis, we must obtain a good faith description of the source of the intermediate components and raw materials from parties in our supply chain. the components that incorporate those metals may originate from many sources and we purchase fabricated products from manufacturers who may have a long and difficult-to-trace supply chain. as the spot price of these materials varies, producers of the metal intermediates can be expected to change the mix of sources used. accordingly, components and assemblies we buy may have a mix of sources as their origin. we are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. there can be no assurance we can obtain this information accurately or reliably, or at all, from intermediate producers who may be unwilling or unable to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. in addition, these metals are subject to price fluctuations and shortages which can affect our ability to obtain the manufactured materials we rely on at favorable terms or from consistent sources. these changes could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture and market our devices and products. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, prohibit payments or other remuneration that could be considered to induce hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order, of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. further, the ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the ppaca provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. these laws may affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial and include exclusion from government healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. 25 table of contents the ppaca also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, as well as any transfers of value made to such physician owners and investors, during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. device manufacturers will be required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year. in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. certain states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance of one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties. compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the united states and/or abroad. these numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory review process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory authorizations, we will not be able to provide our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ). the fda regulates the development, bench and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, sales, distribution and postmarket support and reporting of medical devices in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food drug and cosmetic act ( ffdca ). clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered ( pre-amendment ) status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application ( pma ) for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the united states. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the united states. furthermore, the fda may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. regulatory policy affecting our products can change at any time. the changes and their impact on our business cannot be accurately predicted. for example, in 2011, the fda announced a plan of action to modernize and improve the fda's premarket review of medical devices, and has implemented, and continues to implement, reforms intended to streamline the premarket review process. in addition, as part of the food and drug administration safety and innovation act of 2012 ("fdasia"), congress enacted several reforms entitled the medical device regulatory improvements and additional miscellaneous provisions which will further affect medical device regulation both pre- and post-approval. changes in the fda 510(k) process could make approval more difficult to obtain, increase delay, add uncertainty and have other significant adverse effects on our ability to obtain and maintain approval for our products. the fda may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a pma, which is typically a much more complex, lengthy and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. in some cases such studies may be requested for a 510(k) as well. we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, in which case the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 table of contents in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a medical device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board ( irb ) approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption ( ide ) application. many of our products to date have been or would be considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the united states for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to conduct studies which comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certainty that clinical trials will meet desired endpoints, produce meaningful or useful data and be free of unexpected adverse effects, or that the fda will accept the validity of foreign clinical study data cannot be assured, and such uncertainty could preclude or delay market clearance or authorizations resulting in significant financial costs and reduced revenue. in addition, some products may be regulated by the fda as drugs, biologics or combination devices which carry still greater requirements for clinical trials, regulatory submissions and approvals. complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous quality and postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: continued compliance to the qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the development and manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda's general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; stringent complaint reporting and medical device reporting regulations, which requires that manufacturers keep detailed records of investigations or complaints against their devices and to report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; adequate use of the corrective and preventive actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest same; and the reporting of corrections and removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from inspectional observations (form fda 483) to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance. we have created labeling, advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to describe specific surgical procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) indications for use stated in our 510(k) clearances. although we have relied on expert in-house and external staff, consultants and advisors, many of whom were formerly employed by fda and familiar with fda requirements, we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. we also have modified the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system since obtaining 510(k) clearance in ways that we do not believe require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. computer motion, which we acquired in 2003, also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or computer motion's products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. an fda inspection of our facilities occurred in april-may 2013, and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing four observations relating to the reporting of field corrections, information which is to be included on reports of field corrections, written procedures for changes to certain product labeling, and design input documentation. we responded to each observation with corrective actions 27 table of contents during the course of the inspection and provided additional evidence of corrective actions to the fda in response to the form fda 483. the fda issued a warning letter, dated july 16, 2013, related to two of the four form fda 483 observations asking for additional corrective actions and indicated their intent to perform a follow-up inspection. in addition, the fda collected electronic samples of all our advertising and promotional material for review, and to date have taken no action in connection therewith. we responded to the warning letter, communicating corrective actions taken. the fda re-inspected our facilities during february-march of 2014 to complete a general quality system audit as well as a review of the status of the warning letter and 483 remediation activities. at the end of the inspection, the fda issued a form fda 483 listing five observations related to quality management system improvement opportunities. we responded to the fda with a corrective action plan for those observations. on april 25, 2014, we received a closure letter from the fda stating that the observations in the july 16, 2013 warning letter have been addressed. however, we cannot assure that the fda will not find other observations in future inspections. the fda previously inspected our sunnyvale, california facilities in january 2012 and did not issue a form fda 483 as a result of this inspection. the receipt of a warning letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain fda issued certificates to foreign government ( cfgs ) used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries. we have a wholly owned manufacturing facility located in mexicali, mexico which manufactures reusable and disposable surgical instruments. this facility is registered with the fda as well as mexican authorities. the facility is operated under u.s. and international quality system regulations including those applicable to canada, the european union and japan among others. our wholly owned manufacturing facility in mexicali, mexico has an fda establishment registration but has not been fda inspected to date. if the fda were to determine non-conformances in our product documentation or quality system compliance, they could hold indefinitely the importation of instruments at the border which would deprive us of the ability to sell and supply the majority of our customers until the fda requirements have been satisfied. similar supply disruptions could occur if key suppliers outside of u.s. were to encounter non-conformances with their documentation or quality system compliance. please see our risk factor below titled if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or other manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, import/export of our products and/or recall some products which would result in significant product delivery delays and lost revenue for additional risks related to the potential effects of our expansion of our manufacturing space in mexicali, mexico. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to provide our products in foreign countries. to be able to provide our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries which may differ substantially from those of the united states. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or to obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. in particular, if the fda refuses to provide cfgs our ability to register products or renew such registrations may be delayed or denied. the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the authorization to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and have maintained this authorization continuously since that time. from time to time we seek the authorization to affix the ce mark to new or modified products. subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our notified body, dgm. in september 2013, we received notice that dgm has changed their name to presafe following acquisition by a larger notified body. the change did not have a significant impact on our operations other than replacement of various quality system certificates with the new name. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark authorizations we have already obtained including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives to enable this path to ce marking. we cannot be certain we will be able to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu and many affiliated countries that accept the ce mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some member states of the european union have additional requirements for registration and notification which may add to the time and effort to obtain market access. in addition, the regulations applied to end users 28 table of contents of our products may increase over time, forcing us to provide additional solutions to regulations which do not apply directly to us, but which apply indirectly as they may limit our customers' ability to use our products. in november 2009, we received shonin approval from the japanese ministry of health, labor and welfare ( mhlw ) for our da vinci surgical system and in october 2012, we received approval for our da vinci si system and various associated instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci procedures. we may seek additional approvals for other products and/or procedures, however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, because only a subset of our instruments has received shonin approval, and reimbursement is an additional process to generate market acceptance, it is possible that approved procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. to date, we have received reimbursement approval for prostatectomy in japan. there are multiple pathways to obtain reimbursement for procedures including those require in-country clinical data and which are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. in addition, in january 2012 we acquired certain assets of our distributor in korea, bio-robotics. our products are highly regulated in korea and we face many of the same risks and limitations on the commercialization of our products as in japan and the united states. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or other manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, import/export of our products and/or recall some products which would result in significant product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the fda and other regulatory agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr and other regulatory requirements. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization ( iso ) quality system standards as well as european directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in the european union. in addition, many countries such as canada and japan have very specific additional regulatory requirements for quality assurance and manufacturing. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements, as well as iso or other regulatory standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we continue to be subject to fda and certain other inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. our sunnyvale, california facility is licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we have been subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services food and drug branch and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship some products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in 2012 the state of california announced suspension of routine inspections but this policy could be modified or inspections could be resumed for specific circumstances. in addition, both our sunnyvale, california and mexicali, mexico facilities are subject to periodic inspections by other regulatory bodies, including third party auditors on behalf of national regulatory authorities. compliance with multiple regulatory standards is complex, difficult and costly to maintain, and material deficiencies could result in significant limitations on our ability to manufacture, transport and sell our products in one or more countries. if hospitals and other surgery facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or other regulatory standards, they may be required to temporarily cease all or part of their da vinci utilization. our global customers are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. our customers are required to comply with applicable local and international regulations, including with respect to the reprocessing of da vinci instruments and accessories. hospitals may not follow cleaning and sterilization instructions properly. equipment used for cleaning and sterilization may malfunction or be used improperly. if our customers deviate from cleaning and sterilization instructions, regulatory authorities may require them to suspend use of da vinci surgical systems. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to replace our patents by the time they expire or to fully protect our intellectual property from use by third parties , our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. we believe new competitors will emerge in medical robotics. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies as older patents expire. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining 29 table of contents patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party's products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be u.s. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present or future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with several industry partners. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 30 table of contents risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts' or investors' expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. our products typically have a lengthy sales cycle. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products achieve and maintain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2011, the nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $466.30 and a low of $267.40, during fiscal 2012, it reached a high of $588.28 and a low of $440.00, during fiscal 2013, it reached a high of $583.67 and a low of $355.93, and during fiscal 2014, it reached a high of $540.63 and a low of $352.35. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals and enforcement actions; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past, especially recently. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including us, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. consolidated cash flow data years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 665.1 $ 880.0 $ 814.2 investing activities (153.9 ) 259.0 (845.7 ) financing activities (692.4 ) (910.6 ) 119.2 effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (0.6 ) 0.2 net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (181.8 ) $ 228.4 $ 87.9 operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2014 , cash flow from operations of $665.1 million exceeded our net income of $418.8 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included substantial non-cash charges primarily in the form of share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes, and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $232.1 million during the year ended december 31, 2014. 2. changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in approximately $14.2 million in cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2014. operating assets and liabilities are comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue, other accrued liabilities, and prepaid expenses. accrued liabilities increased by $63.4 million, mainly driven by an increase in product liability accruals. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service revenue that is being recognized as revenue over the service contract period, increased by $19.8 million in 2014 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts existed. also, accrued compensation and accounts payable increased by $39.1 million. the favorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $13.7 million in 2014 reflecting timing of our system sales and related collections, a net increase in inventory of $26.8 million primarily due to expanded product offerings, and an increase in prepaids and other assets of $67.6 million, primarily driven by timing of tax payments and an increase in lease receivables relating to sales-type lease arrangements entered into during fiscal 2014. during the year ended december 31, 2013 , cash flow from operations of $880.0 million exceeded our net income of $671.0 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes, and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $231.0 million during the year ended december 31, 2013. 2. changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting in cash used in operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2013 was approximately $22.0 million. 49 table of contents operating assets and liabilities are comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other liabilities. accounts receivable decreased by $68.9 million, or 19%, in 2013 reflecting timing of our system sales. inventory increased by $58.1 million, or 48%, in 2013 due to expanded product offerings and safety stocks acquired for key components. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service revenue that is being recognized as revenue over the service contract period, increased $15.3 million, or 8%, in 2013 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities decreased by $35.1 million in 2013 primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2013. during the year ended december 31, 2012, cash flow from operations of $814.2 million exceeded our net income of $656.6 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $223.1 million during the year ended december 31, 2012. 2. changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting in cash used in operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2012 was approximately $65.5 million. operating assets and liabilities are comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other liabilities. accounts receivable increased by $68.9 million, or 24%, in 2012 reflecting timing of our system sales. inventory increased by $7.1 million, or 8%, in 2012 due to our business growth, expanded product offerings, and safety stocks acquired for key components. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $30.5 million, or 20%, in 2012 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased by $17.1 million in 2012 primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2012. investing activities net cash used in investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2014 , consisted primarily of cash used for purchases of property and equipment of $105.6 million and purchases of businesses of $84.3 million, partially offset by the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments (net of purchases of investments) of $36.0 million. purchases of property included the acquisition of approximately 15 acres of land in sunnyvale, california for future expansion. during the year ended december 31, 2014, we acquired certain intellectual property, know-how, fixed assets, and employees from luna and we reacquired the japan distribution rights from adachi. net cash provided by investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2013 , consisted primarily of proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments (net of purchases of investments) of $363.6 million, less purchases of property and equipment and licensing of intellectual property of $104.6 million. net cash used in investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2012 , consisted primarily of purchases of investments (net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments) of $703.9 million less purchases of property and equipment and licensing of intellectual property of $114.2 million. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s. treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and/or tax exempt municipal notes, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, cash deposits and money market funds. financing activities net cash used in financing activities in 2014 consisted primarily of $1.0 billion used for the repurchase of 2.5 million shares of our common stock through an accelerated share repurchase program, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $283.6 million and excess tax benefits of $24.0 million. net cash used in financing activities in 2013 consisted primarily of $1.1 billion used for the repurchase of 2.6 million shares of our common stock, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $160.6 million and excess tax benefits of $38.0 million. net cash proceeds provided by financing activities in 2012 consisted primarily of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $263.3 million and excess tax benefits of $94.2 million, offset by $238.3 million used for the repurchase of 0.4 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions. our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products. we have made substantial investments in our commercial operations, product development activities, facilities and intellectual property. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements beyond one year and for the foreseeable future. 50 table of contents contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2014 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years operating leases $ 10.8 $ 5.1 $ 5.1 $ 0.6 purchase commitments and obligations 251.5 250.0 1.5 total contractual obligations $ 262.3 $ 255.1 $ 6.6 $ 0.6 operating leases. we lease office spaces in the u.s., switzerland, mexico, japan, brazil, china, and korea. we also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our non-cancellable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and development arrangements. payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and have not been included in the table above. other commitments. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2014 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ), which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries and government agencies, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper, and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds. the securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weighted-average maturity of our investments as of december 31, 2014 was approximately 1.4 years. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, 54 table of contents which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $7.5 million as of december 31, 2014 . we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. the uncertain financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we sell in local currency in most of the european markets where we sell direct, as well as in japan, and in korea. we operate in a number of markets on a direct sales basis and incur operating expenses in local currencies in europe, japan, and korea. we also purchase certain product components from non-u.s. suppliers in local currency. as a result, because a portion of our operations consist of sales activities outside of the u.s., we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s. dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and foreign currency bank balances. for the year ended december 31, 2014 , sales denominated in foreign currencies (euro, british pound, japanese yen, and korean won) were approximately 16% of total revenue. the objective of our hedging program is to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. for the year ended december 31, 2014 , our revenue would have decreased by approximately $3.6 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate would have strengthened by 10%. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies to which we have exposure, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions as of december 31, 2014 , would have resulted in a $7.2 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. to mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. we monitor ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust our exposure to various counterparties. although we sell to distributors outside the u.s. in u.s. dollars, strengthening of the dollar can impact our distributors' margins and could impact the end customers' ability to purchase our product if our distributors seek to recover the impact of the change in the dollar by increasing product and service prices. less than 10% of our revenue is conducted through distributors outside the u.s. strengthening of the dollar relative to non-u.s. currencies could have an adverse impact on our business. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 55 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. part i item 1. business in this report, intuitive surgical, intuitive, the company, we, us, and our refer to intuitive surgical, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. intuitive , intuitive surgical , da vinci , da vinci , da vinci si hd surgical system , da vinci hd surgical system , da vinci si , da vinci xi , da vinci si-e , da vinci sp , endowrist , endowrist one , endowrist stapler 45, single-site , firefly , insite , and da vinci connect are trademarks of intuitive surgical, inc. company background intuitive designs, manufactures and markets da vinci surgical systems and related instruments and accessories, which taken together, are advanced surgical systems that we consider an advanced generation of surgery. this advanced generation of surgery, which we call da vinci surgery, combines the benefits of minimally invasive surgery ( mis ) for patients with the ease of use, precision and dexterity of open surgery. a da vinci surgical system consists of a surgeon's console, a patient-side cart, and a high performance vision system. the da vinci surgical system translates a surgeon's natural hand movements, which are performed on instrument controls at a console, into corresponding micro-movements of instruments positioned inside the patient through small incisions, or ports. the da vinci surgical system is designed to provide its operating surgeons with intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability and three dimensional ( 3-d ), high-definition ( hd ) vision while simultaneously allowing surgeons to work through the small ports enabled by mis procedures. da vinci surgery da vinci surgery utilizes computational, robotic and imaging technologies to enable improved patient outcomes compared to other surgical and non-surgical therapies. da vinci surgery is aimed towards advancing the critical surgical ideals of entering the body less invasively, seeing anatomy more clearly, interacting with tissue more precisely and building surgical skills. the da vinci surgical system enables surgeons to avail or improve the benefits of mis to many patients who would otherwise undergo a more invasive surgery. surgeons using the da vinci system operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a 3-d, hd image of the surgical field. this immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. while seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the more intuitive open surgery technique. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human 4 table of contents wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hand. in designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy to use. our systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons: immersive 3-d visualization. our vision system includes a 3-d endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. the da vinci surgical system provides visualization of target anatomy with natural depth-of-field, enhanced contrast and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. with our firefly fluorescence imaging technology, surgeons can use specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts beneath tissue surfaces in real-time. precise and tremor-free endoscope control. our imaging system also incorporates our proprietary navigator camera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left and right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image. intuitive instrument movements. our technology is designed to transform the surgeon's natural hand movements outside the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient's body. for example, with the da vinci surgical system, a hand movement to the right outside the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. in contrast, conventional mis instruments are long rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. in conventional mis, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon's hand and surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to translate their hand movements in this backward environment. endowrist instruments. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human hand and wrist. most of our proprietary instruments, which we call endowrist instruments, incorporate wrist joints that enable surgeons to reach behind tissues and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery. scaled, tremor filtered instrument movement. with our technology, the surgeon can also use motion scaling, a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient's body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient's body. motion scaling is designed to allow precision and control for delicate tasks. in addition, our technology filters the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hands. improved surgeon ergonomics. the da vinci surgical system is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. the da vinci surgical system's design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon's console. because the da vinci surgical system's robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue. multi-specialty surgical platform. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures, within our targeted gynecologic, urologic, general surgery, cardiothoracic and head and neck specialties. to date, surgeons have used the da vinci surgical system to perform dozens of different types of surgical procedures. while we do not expect all of these different types of procedures to become widely adopted, they demonstrate the flexibility of the da vinci surgical system in approaching anatomy. advanced training tools. surgeons can efficiently train and improve their da vinci surgery skills with a group of tools unique to robotic surgery, including our da vinci skills simulator for software based skills practice and assessment, our da vinci dual console for inter-operative collaboration, and our da vinci connect networking technology for on-line proctoring. products: da vinci surgical system we have commercialized four generations of the da vinci surgical system the da vinci xi surgical system, the da vinci si surgical system, the da vinci surgical system and the standard da vinci surgical system. da vinci surgical systems are comprised of the following components: surgeon's console . the da vinci surgical system allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic console viewing a 3-d image of the surgical field. the surgeon's fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with the surgeon's hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. using electronic hardware, software, algorithms and mechanics, our technology translates the surgeon's hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of the endowrist instruments positioned inside the patient. on our most current systems, da vinci xi and da vinci si , a second surgeon's console may be used in two possible ways: to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or to act as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. with the da vinci xi and da vinci si , a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of 5 table of contents the da vinci instruments during the surgery. in addition, surgeons can control 3-d virtual pointers to augment the dual surgeon experience. patient-side cart . the patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the patient. up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned as appropriate, and then locked into place. at least two arms hold our endowrist instruments, one representing the surgeon's left hand and one representing the surgeon's right hand. a third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. an optional fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a third endowrist instrument to perform additional tasks. the fourth instrument arm is a standard integrated feature on the da vinci xi, si, and surgical systems and is available as an upgrade on three-arm da vinci surgical systems and da vinci si-e surgical systems. 3-d vision system. our vision system includes our insite 3-d endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. the resulting 3-d image has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker, and low cross fading. a digital zoom feature in the 3-d, hd vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and thereby reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. the 3-d, hd vision is a standard integrated feature on da vinci xi, si, and surgical systems. da vinci skills simulator . the skills simulator is a practice tool that gives a user the opportunity to practice his or her facility with the surgeon console controls. the skills simulator incorporates 3-d, physics-based computer simulation technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment. the user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. upon completion of a skills exercise, the skills simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. the skills simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for the da vinci xi and si surgical systems. most da vinci skills simulators have been sold in connection with our da vinci xi and si surgical systems. firefly fluorescence imaging . firefly is a standard feature of the da vinci xi surgical system and available on our da vinci si surgical system. this imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da vinci camera head, endoscope and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy. adoption of firefly is progressing with use across the categories of urology, gynecology and general surgery. in september 2013, we received 510(k) clearance from the u.s. food and drug administration (the fda ) to market our firefly fluorescence imaging product for real-time imaging of bile ducts (cystic duct, common bile duct, and common hepatic duct). we believe that the use of firefly during cholecystectomy procedures will enhance the ability of surgeons to identify key anatomical structures during the surgery. standard da vinci system. during 2014, we phased out the sale of all instrument, accessory and service contract offerings for the standard da vinci surgical system. instruments and accessories endowrist instruments . we manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate wrist joints for natural dexterity, with tips customized for various surgical procedures. endowrist instruments are offered in a variety of sizes, of which 5mm and 8mm diameter sizes are the most commonly sold. at their tips, the various endowrist instruments include forceps, scissors, electrocautery, scalpels, and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon from open surgery and conventional mis. a variety of endowrist instruments are selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. our endowrist instruments are sterilizable and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. a programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the da vinci system and instruments work together. in addition, the chip will not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. we typically develop new types of endowrist instruments to support additional types of surgical procedures. da vinci single-site. da vinci single-site is a set of non-wristed instruments (except for wristed needle driver discussed below) and accessories that allow surgical systems to work through a single incision, typically in the umbilicus, rather than multiple incisions. single incision surgery is intended to minimize trauma to patients by reducing the number of ports required to enter the body and is typically utilized for less complex surgery than multi-port surgery. non-robotic single incision surgery today is typically performed with modified laparoscopic instruments. early clinical adoption of this manual technique has been mostly positive; however, physicians have reported that manual single incision surgery is technically and ergonomically challenging. da vinci single-site instruments and accessories were designed to address these issues. in september 2014, we received fda clearance to market the wristed version of our single-site needle driver product for use on benign hysterectomy, cholecystectomy, and salpingo-oophorectomy procedures. we believe this instrument may have particular utility in benign hysterectomy procedures. however, as these are our initial products targeted towards 6 table of contents procedures already highly penetrated by manual mis techniques, we are not able to predict the extent or pace that da vinci single-site may be adopted. endowrist one vessel sealer . the endowrist one vessel sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7 mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. this instrument enables surgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of da vinci surgery. this instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures. endowrist stapler 45 instrument . the endowrist stapler 45 is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection and/or creation of anastomoses in general, gynecologic and urologic surgery. this instrument enables operators to precisely position and fire the stapler. its initial surgical use has been directed towards colorectal and thoracic procedures. accessory products . we sell various accessory products which are used in conjunction with the da vinci surgical system as surgical procedures are performed. accessory products include sterile drapes used to ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products such as replacement 3-d stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other items that facilitate use of the system. business strategy our objective is to bring the benefits of mis to as many patients as possible through the use of computer aided robotic technologies. our priorities to accomplish this are as follows: 1. patient value. we believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as: patient value = procedure efficacy/invasiveness . we define procedure efficacy as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness as how disruptive and painful the treatment is itself. when the patient value of a da vinci procedure is deemed higher than alternate treatment options, patients may seek out surgeons and hospitals that offer that specific da vinci procedure, potentially resulting in a local market share shift for the specific treatment. da vinci procedure adoption occurs procedure by procedure, and is driven by the relative patient value and total treatment costs of da vinci procedures compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state. we believe most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. our goal is to provide products to surgeons who in turn provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options. 2. surgeon value. we train surgeons on the use of our da vinci surgical system and assist them in building their practices by their delivery of high patient value. we provide an ergonomic platform for surgeons to perform their procedures. we seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy to use products. 3. hospital value. we assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value using da vinci products, thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced length of patient stay. we believe da vinci surgery is a cost effective approach to many surgeries as compared to alternative treatment options, as recognized in many published studies. given the priorities above, our strategy is to improve our target surgical procedures in one or more of the following ways: 1. convert target open procedures to da vinci urgery. we believe that our technology has the potential to convert a significant percentage of our targeted open procedures to da vinci surgery. 2. facilitate difficult mis operations. we believe that several surgical procedures that are seldom performed today using conventional mis techniques can be performed more routinely using da vinci surgery. some procedures have been adopted using mis techniques but are extremely difficult and are currently performed by a limited number of highly skilled surgeons. we believe our da vinci surgical system will enable more surgeons at more institutions to perform such procedures. 3. offer a less invasive single port surgical option. we believe that our da vinci single site technology has the potential to convert target procedures typically performed via multiport laparoscopic technique to single port da vinci surgery, offering patients less invasive, improved cosmetic outcomes. clinical applications we are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and applications for da vinci surgery an important part of our creative process. we primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value, surgeon value, and hospital value. we currently focus on five surgical specialties: gynecologic surgery, urologic surgery, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. key procedures which we are focused on include da vinci prostatectomy ( dvp ), da vinci hysterectomy ( dvh ), hernia repair, da vinci cholecystectomy, da vinci colon and rectal procedures, da vinci partial nephrectomy, da vinci sacrocolpopexy, da vinci mitral valve repair, da vinci lobectomy, and da vinci transoral robotic surgery. in 2015 , total u.s. procedure volume 7 table of contents was approximately 499,000 , of which 20% was in urology, 48% was in gynecology, and 28% was in general surgery. procedure volume from our market outside of the u.s. was approximately 153,000 in 2015 , of which most procedures were in urology. representative surgical applications are described below. gynecologic surgery hysterectomy. removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and is performed for a variety of underlying benign and malignant conditions. hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy), or mis techniques, which include vaginal, laparoscopic, and robotic approaches. prior to the clearance of da vinci surgery for gynecology in 2005, the majority of hysterectomies performed were open surgeries. we believe that da vinci surgery provides a large number of women the opportunity to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an alternative to an open hysterectomy, as we estimate that nearly 80% of hysterectomies are performed with a mis technique. during the first quarter of 2013, single-site instruments received fda approval in the u.s. for use in benign hysterectomies and salpingo oophorectomies. in september 2014, we received fda clearance to market the wristed version of our single-site needle driver product for use on benign hysterectomy, cholecystectomy, and salpingo-oophorectomy procedures. single-site instruments enable surgeons to perform surgery through a single port via the patient's belly button, allowing for virtually scarless results. sacrocolpopexy. the abdominal (open) sacrocolpopexy is one of the most successful operations for vaginal vault prolapse. sacrocolpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). a sacrocolpopexy can be performed using conventional laparoscopic technique; however, it is generally described as difficult and cumbersome to perform. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of sacrocolpopexy patients. urologic surgery prostatectomy. radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. the standard approach to removal of the prostate has been via an open surgical procedure. the conventional laparoscopic approach is an option, but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. the da vinci surgical system has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique. partial nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor). partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. excluding da vinci surgery, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy, and hand assisted laparoscopy, which is a hybrid of open and laparoscopic technique. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients. treatment guidelines for patients with localized renal cancer recommend partial nephrectomy due to the benefits nephron-sparing surgery has in long-term patient outcomes. published clinical literature has shown that the presence of a da vinci surgical system is associated with a higher-proportion of patients receiving guideline-recommended partial nephrectomy. general surgery colorectal surgery. these procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular the rectum or colon. common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection, and abdominoperineal resection. conventional laparoscopy is not widely employed to treat these types of diseases, due to their high degree of difficulty. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system and our recently launched technologies, such as the da vinci xi surgical system, endowrist stapler , and endowrist vessel sealer, have enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients. hernia repair. a hernia occurs when an organ or fatty tissue squeezes through a weak spot in a surrounding muscle or connective fascia tissue. during a hernia repair surgery, the weakened abdominal wall tissue is secured and defects are repaired. common types of hernia are ventral and inguinal. ventral, or abdominal hernia, may occur through a scar after surgery in the abdomen. inguinal hernia is a bulge in the groin and is more common in men. hernia repair can be performed using traditional open surgery or mis. there is a wide-range of complexity in hernia repair surgeries and the benefits of minimally invasive and robotic surgery varies by patient. 8 table of contents cholecystectomy. cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of the gall bladder, is a commonly performed general surgery procedure. cholecystectomy is the primary method for the treatment of gallstones and other gall bladder diseases. most cholecystectomies are performed using multi-port mis techniques, although some surgeons choose to perform cholecystectomy using manual single-port instrumentation. using da vinci single-site instruments, many of the technical challenges of manual single-port mis are reduced as surgeons benefit from additional precision, control, and improved ergonomics. multi-port da vinci techniques are also being used for certain cases, and firefly technology can be used to visualize biliary anatomy in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces during single-site and multi-port da vinci cholecystectomies. bariatric surgery . a body of literature has emerged pointing to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its secondary effects, such as diabetes. sleeve gastrectomy and roux-en-y gastric bypass ( rygb ) are the most commonly performed surgical procedures for morbid obesity in the u.s. the body habitus of morbidly obese patients can make laparoscopic surgery physically challenging for the surgeon, and certain surgeons have found value in using the da vinci surgical system to improve upon the ergonomics when performing minimally-invasive surgery in morbidly obese patients. in addition, rygb can be a technically challenging procedure because of the suturing, stapling, and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. surgeons using the da vinci surgical system have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to laparoscopic rygb. cardiothoracic surgery mitral valve repair. when patients are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are typically two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient's post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen. because mitral valve repairs are considered to be more technically challenging than mitral valve replacements, they are only performed approximately 50% of the time. several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when using the da vinci surgical system. thoracic surgery. conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision, and esophagectomy. many thoracic procedures remain open procedures. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients and improved clinical outcomes compared to open and video-assisted thoracic surgery in published single-center, multi-center and national database clinical studies. head and neck surgery transoral surgery. head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation, or a combination of both. surgical resection performed by an open approach may require a jaw-splitting mandibulotomy. this procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is potentially traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. mis approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated by conventional endoscopic tools. chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions; however, literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients' ability to speak and swallow normally. surgeons have reported that da vinci transoral surgery allows them to treat cancers occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line-of-sight limitations of conventional transoral surgery. procedure mix our procedure business is broadly split into two categories: (1) cancer and other highly complex procedures and (2) less complex benign procedures. our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economic solutions in each of these categories. more fully featured products targeted towards the more complex procedure segment include 4-arm, dual console, firefly enabled systems and advanced instruments including the endowrist one vessel sealer and the endowrist stapler. lower priced products targeted towards the less complex segment of procedures include the three-arm da vinci si-e system and lower priced single-site instruments. clinical summary we believe there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the da vinci surgical system and we work closely with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in which da vinci may bring value. as of december 31, 2015 , we had an installed base of 3,597 da vinci surgical systems, including 2,399 in the u.s., 608 in europe, 423 in asia, and 167 in the rest of the world. we estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 652,000 surgical procedures of various types in hospitals throughout the world during the year ended december 31, 2015 . of those da vinci procedures performed in 2015 , we estimate that approximately 211,000 were dvh procedures and approximately 145,000 were dvp procedures. 9 table of contents sales and customer support sales model we provide our products through a direct sales organization in the u.s.; most of western europe excluding spain, portugal, italy and greece; and japan and south korea. in the remainder of our world markets, we provide our products through distributors. no one customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . during the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , domestic revenue accounted for 71% , 70% , and 72% , respectively, of total revenue, while revenue outside of the u.s. ( ous ) accounted for 29% , 30% , and 28% , respectively. as of december 31, 2015 , and 2014 , 88% and 93% of all long-lived assets were in the united states. our direct sales organization is composed of a capital sales team, responsible for selling da vinci surgical systems, and a clinical sales team, responsible for supporting da vinci surgical system use in surgical procedures performed at our hospital accounts. our hospital accounts include both individual hospitals and health care facilities and hospitals and health care facilities that are part of an integrated delivery network ( idn groups ). the initial da vinci surgical system sale into an account as a major capital equipment purchase by our customers that typically has a lengthy sales cycle that can be affected by macroeconomic factors, capital spending prioritization, and the timing of budgeting cycles. capital sales activities include educating surgeons and hospital staff across multiple surgical specialties on the benefits of da vinci surgery, total treatment costs, and the clinical applications that our technology enables. we also train our sales organization to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including clinical benefits of da vinci surgery, reductions in complications and length of stay, and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction, surgeon recruitment, and volume. our clinical sales team works on site at the hospitals, interacting with surgeons, operating room staff, and hospital administrators to develop and sustain successful robotics surgery programs. they assist the hospital in identifying surgeons who have an interest in robotic surgery delivering da vinci's benefits. our clinical sales team provides the current clinical information on robotic surgery practices and new product applications to the hospital teams and has grown with the expanded installed base of da vinci surgical systems and the total number of procedures performed. we expect this organization to continue to grow as our business expands. our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. orders received are typically shipped within one business day. direct customers who purchase a new da vinci surgical system typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories within one month of receiving their system. our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first and third fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. in addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarter. procedures treating benign conditions are typically higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter. timing of procedures and changes in procedure volume impact the timing of instrument and accessory and capital purchases. customer support and training programs we have a network of field service engineers across the u.s., europe, and asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. this infrastructure of service and support specialists offers a full complement of services, including 24/7 support, installation, repair, and maintenance for our customers. we generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs. we provide basic system training that teaches the fundamental operating principles of the da vinci surgical system to surgeons, surgical assistants, and operating room nurses. we have established training centers where initial system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. surgeons may also practice their robotic surgery technique using our da vinci skills simulator. in addition, we help facilitate the proctoring of surgeons who are new to da vinci surgery by experienced da vinci surgical system users. proctors provide training to other surgeons on how to perform certain surgical procedures with da vinci surgical systems. research and development we focus our research and development efforts on providing our customers with new products and product improvements that enable them to perform mis procedures with less difficulty. we employ research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. we invested $197.4 million , $178.0 million , and $167.7 million of research and development expenses for the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. we establish strategic alliances with other medical device and technology based companies to complement our research and development effort. to date, these alliances have taken several forms, including cooperation in the areas of product development, training, procedure development, and marketing activities. we have formed alliances with several companies, including, but not limited to, erbe elektromedizin gmbh, johnson &amp; johnson, olympus corporation, novadaq technologies, inc., mimic technologies, inc., schoelly fiberoptic gmbh, and trumph medical (a division of hill-rom holdings, inc.). 10 table of contents manufacturing we manufacture our da vinci surgical systems at our facility in sunnyvale, california. we manufacture our instruments at our sunnyvale facility and our mexicali, mexico facility. we purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). we purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods. competition we consider our primary competition to be existing open surgery, conventional mis, drug therapies, radiation treatment, and emerging interventional surgical approaches. our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability as well as educating hospitals, surgeons and patients on the demonstrated results associated with da vinci surgery and its value relative to other techniques. we also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the mis market. we believe that many companies are focused on adding capability to manual mis systems. because many of these developments are aimed at mis, we believe that our da vinci surgical system may prove complementary to some of these new technologies. moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g. single-site , endowrist stapler, and vessel sealer) that compete with product offerings traditionally within the domains of open surgery and/or conventional mis, we face greater competition from larger and well established companies such as ethicon endo-surgery, inc. furthermore, as da vinci use increases, a number of companies may be compelled to enter the field of robotic surgery. the following companies introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field: auris surgical robotics, inc., cambridge medical robotics ltd, imris inc., johnson &amp; johnson and google inc. and their joint venture, verb surgical inc., medrobotics corp., meerecompany inc., medtronic plc, olympus corp., samsung corporation, transenterix inc., and titan medical inc. companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. in addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. our revenues may be adversely impacted as our competitors announce their intent to enter our markets and as our customers anticipate the availability of competing products. intellectual property we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes. we generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. for example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. we also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own large and robust patent portfolio. as of december 31, 2015 , we held ownership or exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 2,100 u.s. and foreign patents and more than 1,500 u.s. and foreign patent applications. we intend to continue filing new patent applications in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology. patents are granted for finite terms and eventually expire. upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a patent enter the public domain. while our patents are an important element of our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. government regulation our products and operations are subject to regulation by the fda, the state of california and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate compliance to these with the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to meet these standards could limit the ability to market our products in those regions which require compliance to such standards. examples of groups of such standards are electrical safety standards such as those of the international electrotechnical commission (e.g. iec 60601-ss series of standards) and composition standards such as the reduction of hazardous substances ( rohs ) and waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directives. 11 table of contents united states the fda regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing, distribution, and service of medical devices in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in addition, the fda regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the u.s. to markets outside of the u.s. and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad. under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act ( ffdca ), medical devices are classified into one of three classes class i, class ii or class iii depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. our current products are class ii medical devices. class ii devices are those which are subject to general controls and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the fda, and clearance by the fda. premarket review and clearance by the fda for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process. unless a class ii device is exempt from premarket review, the manufacturer must submit to the fda a premarket notification submission demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent in intended use and technology to a predicate device that is either: 1. a device that has grandfather marketing status because it was legally marketed prior to may 28, 1976, the date upon which the medical device amendments of 1976 were enacted, or 2. a device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process. if the fda agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the u.s. the fda has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission, or a guidance-based 30-day period for special 510(k) submissions which have a more restrictive scope and generally involve more specific or very limited changes to a legally marketed device. as a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. the fda may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. if the fda determines that the device, or its intended use, is not substantially equivalent, the fda may deny the request for clearance. although unlikely for the types of products marketed by us, the fda may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into class iii, and the device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-market approval ( pma ) requirements. a pma application, which is intended to demonstrate that a device is safe and effective, must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. the fda, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review a pma application, though the review more often occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. in approving a pma application or clearing a 510(k) submission, the fda may also require some form of post-market surveillance when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. in such cases, the manufacturer might be required to follow certain patient groups for a number of years and makes periodic reports to the fda on the clinical status of those patients. after a device receives fda 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pma application approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make the determination of whether a modification requires a new 510(k) notification or pma application in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer's decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or pma approval for a particular change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease u.s. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. in addition, after a device is placed on the market, numerous fda and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. these include establishment registration and device listing with the fda; compliance with medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may present a risk to health. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the u.s. have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the fda's good manufacturing practice ( gmp ) requirements contained in its quality system regulation ( qsr ) and associated regulations and guidance. the qsr covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with fda regulation, the manufacturer's own procedures, specifications and testing as well as distribution and post-market experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market 12 table of contents new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the u.s. a company's facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the fda, which may issue reports known as forms fda 483 or notices of inspectional observations which list instances where the fda inspector believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if the observations are sufficiently serious or the manufacturer fails to respond appropriately, the fda may issue warning letters, or untitled letters, which are notices of potential enforcement actions against the manufacturer. if a warning letter or untitled letter is not addressed to the satisfaction of the fda, or if the fda becomes aware of any other serious issue with a manufacturer's products or facilities, it could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the u.s., and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. in the u.s., routine fda inspections usually occur every two years, and may occur more often for cause. to a greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include periodic inspections, inspections by third party auditors, and specialized documentation. failure to meet all the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support and receive reimbursement for the use of our products in these countries. in addition to the above, we may seek to conduct clinical research on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for particular indications in clinical studies or trials in the u.s. or other countries. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such investigational use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board ( irb ). failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject the company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot assure that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. products manufactured outside the u.s. by or for us are subject to u.s. customs and fda inspection upon entry into the u.s. we must demonstrate compliance of such products to u.s. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays. california regulation the state of california requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and until 2012 conducted periodic inspections of medical device manufacturers. our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in july 2011 and were found to be in compliance. in accordance with the state of california regulations, the license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information. although the state of california has announced suspension of routine periodic inspections, there can be no assurance the state of california will not resume such inspections or conduct such inspections under specific circumstances which are not yet known. foreign regulation in order for us to market our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations in other countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. some countries have regulatory review processes which are substantially longer than u.s. processes. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive regulatory ( shonin ) approval. we obtained from the japanese ministry of health, labor, and welfare ( mhlw ) approval for our da vinci si surgical systems in october 2012 and approval for our da vinci xi surgical systems in march 2015. effective april 2012, we obtained national reimbursement for dvp procedures in japan, our only reimbursed procedure to date. we are currently seeking reimbursement for additional procedures through the mhlw's senshin iryo processes as well as alternative reimbursement processes. our senshin iryo approvals require in-country clinical data and are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years. commercialization of medical devices in europe is regulated by the european union ( eu ). the eu presently requires that all medical products bear the conformit europ enne ( ce ) mark, for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and performance 13 table of contents mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu and those affiliated countries which accept the ce mark. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to affix the ce mark on products, a recognized european notified body must certify a manufacturer's quality system and design dossier for compliance with international and european requirements. we have received authorization from dgm denmark a/s, a recognized european notified body and part of nemko presafe a/s, to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and accessories. to maintain authorization to apply the ce mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. in september 2013, the european commission adopted a recommendation indicating that all notified bodies, including dgm, should carry out unannounced audits, at least once every third year, of the manufacturers whose medical devices they have certified. these unannounced audits can also extend to the manufacturer's critical suppliers or sub-contractors (those that supply a critical input or perform a critical function for the manufacturer). if we modify our existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu or those whose marketing authorizations are based on the ce mark. regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. certain countries have their own regulatory agencies, such as china and south korea. these countries typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. our system sales into china are also dependent on obtaining importation authorizations and hospitals completing the central purchasing tender under the authorization, the most recent of which expired at the end of 2015. in addition, local regulations may apply which govern the use of our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. all such regulations are revised from time to time and in general are increasing in complexity, and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing required. there can be no assurance the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. there are further regulations governing the importation, marketing, sale, distribution, use and service as well as the removal and disposal of medical devices. failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions, fines and prevent us from marketing our products in these regions. other healthcare laws we are also subject to federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency and privacy and security laws and regulations. these laws include: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the medicare and medicaid programs. a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal anti-kickback statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims act; federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary's decision to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier; federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; the federal physician payment sunshine act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under medicare, medicaid or the children's health insurance program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to cms information related to payments or other transfers of value made to 14 table of contents physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and requires applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to cms ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members and payments or other transfers of value to such physician owners. manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year; and analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. if our operations are found to violate any of the laws described above or any other laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to market our products and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. third-party coverage and reimbursement in the u.s. and most markets outside of the u.s. ( ous ) where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all covered surgical procedures. governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and physicians for surgery when the procedure is considered medically necessary. in the u.s., the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ) administer the medicare and medicaid programs (the latter, along with applicable state governments). many other third-party payors model their reimbursement methodologies after the medicare program. as the single largest payor, this program has a significant impact on other payors' payment systems. generally, reimbursement for professional services performed at a facility by physicians is reported under billing codes issued by the american medical association ( ama ), known as current procedural terminology ( cpt ) codes. physician reimbursement under medicare generally is based on a fee schedule and determined by the relative values of the professional service rendered. in addition, cms and the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to billing codes used by hospitals to report inpatient procedures, known as icd-9-cm procedural codes prior to october 1, 2015, and icd-10-pcs codes on and after october 1, 2015. for medicare, cms generally reimburses hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay based on a prospective payment system that is determined by a classification system known as medicare-severity diagnostic related groupings ( ms-drgs ). ms-drgs are assigned using a number of factors including the principal diagnosis, major procedures, discharged status, patient age and complicating secondary diagnoses among other things. hospital outpatient services, reported by cpt codes, are assigned to clinically relevant ambulatory payment classifications ( apcs ) used to determine the payment amount for services provided. on october 1, 2008, cms and nchs issued a new family of icd-9-cm procedure codes for robotically assisted procedures. prior to october 1, 2015, for laparoscopic procedures completed with the da vinci surgical system, u.s. hospitals were expected to report the primary surgical procedure code, along with icd-9-cm 17.42, to describe a laparoscopic robotic assisted procedure. the purpose of the icd-9-cm family of procedure codes, 17.4x, was to gather data on robotic assisted surgical procedures. on and after october 1, 2015, a new family of icd-10-pcs codes may be used-in conjunction with other applicable procedure codes-to describe various robotic assisted procedures. an inpatient surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the clinically relevant ms-drg. governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, contract terms, and other factors. because both hospitals and physicians may receive the same reimbursement for their respective services, with or without robotics, regardless of actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care, including for the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products. domestic institutions typically bill for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. because our da vinci surgical system has been cleared for commercial distribution in the u.s. by the fda, coverage and reimbursement by payors are generally 15 table of contents determined by the medical necessity of the primary surgical procedure. we believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies for appropriately selected patients. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. in countries outside the u.s., reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. in most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. in addition, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain european countries. to effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek ous reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. in some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such co-pay practices are not common in most countries. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), which makes changes that significantly impact healthcare providers, insurers, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. one of the principal aims of the ppaca is to expand health insurance coverage to americans who are currently uninsured. the full consequences of the coverage expansions on the sales of our products are still unknown. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund this coverage expansion, including, but not limited to fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. for sales on or after january 1, 2013, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% on certain u.s. medical device revenues. under this provision, the company has incurred an excise tax of approximately $17.0 million in 2015. the tax was included as a cost of revenue and a reduction of product gross profit margin. in december, 2015, president obama signed into law the consolidated appropriations act, 2016 (the appropriations act ). the appropriations act includes a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax such that medical device revenues in 2016 and 2017 will be exempt from the excise tax. unless there is further legislative action during that two-year period, the tax will be automatically reinstated for sales of medical devices on or after january 1, 2018. the ppaca also has provisions to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. it remains unclear how this research will influence future medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions, as well as influence other third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies. as congress and state governments determine how to implement the ppaca, the full impact of the ppaca on the medical device industry and the sale of our products is currently unknown. the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the taxes imposed by ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits, lower reimbursement from payors for procedures that use our products and/or reduced procedural volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. on august 2, 2011, the u.s. president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. this included aggregate reduction to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, enacted on april 16, 2015 ( macra ), repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would affect our ability to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. employees as of december 31, 2015 , we had 3,211 employees, 345 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 1,306 in manufacturing and service and 1,560 in marketing, sales, and administrative activities. none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. general we make our periodic and current reports, including our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, our code of business conduct and ethics policy and any amendments to those reports, available 16 table of contents free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com and the reports are filed under sec filings, on the company investor relations portion of our website. periodically, we webcast company announcements, product launch events and executive presentations which can be viewed via our investor relations pages on our website. in addition, we provide notifications of our material news including sec filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our investor relations website. the contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. the public may read and copy any materials filed by the company with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, room 1580, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. the contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. further, references to the urls for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. we operate our business as one segment as defined by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. our financial results for the year ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 are discussed in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this annual report. intuitive surgical, inc. was founded in 1995. we are a delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1020 kifer road, sunnyvale, california 94086. our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com . item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient, and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors' acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could materially adversely affect our company. in recent years, the global economic downturn, as well as credit and sovereign debt concerns in certain european countries, as well as concerns about continued slowed economic growth in china and other international markets, have caused economic uncertainty, disruptions in the financial credit markets, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. uncertainty about current global economic conditions continues to pose a risk as customers may choose to postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit. there could be additional effects from adverse conditions in the credit markets on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays, and the inability of our customers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if economic conditions worsen, or our forecasted demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 17 table of contents because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors' products or services or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a relatively new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than da vinci surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. the following companies introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field: auris surgical robotics inc., cambridge medical robotics ltd, imris inc., johnson &amp; johnson and google inc. and their joint venture, verb surgical inc., medrobotics corp., meerecompany inc., medtronic plc, olympus corp., samsung corporation, transenterix inc., and titan medical inc. companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. in addition, third-party service providers that provide service to da vinci surgical system operators may emerge and compete with us on price or offerings. to date, substantially all of our customers have sourced services on their da vinci surgical systems from us through service contract commitments or time and materials contracts. if we are unable to compete successfully with any third-party service providers, our revenues may suffer. recently, third party entities have begun to offer robotic surgery consulting services targeted at analyzing the cost-effectiveness of hospitals' robotic surgery programs, including procedures performed, placement of systems, and consumption of instruments and accessories. we currently provide similar services and analysis to our customers, but it is difficult to assess the impact that this may have on our business. our customers may use unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. a large portion of our revenue is generated through our sales of instruments and accessories. third parties have attempted to and may discover ways to manufacture and sell counterfeit reprocessed instruments and/or alter instruments that are compatible and function with the da vinci surgical system, and such activities may reduce our market share. while our sales arrangements with customers generally prohibit the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories with the da vinci surgical systems, and warranties will be void if such instruments and accessories are used, and a programmed memory chip inside each instrument is designed to prevent the instrument from being used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure, these measures may not prevent the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories by our customers. in addition to potential reductions to our revenues and market share, sales of unauthorized instruments and accessories by third parties may create safety and health risks to da vinci patients and could cause negative publicity for us if these products cause injuries and/or do not function as intended when used with the da vinci surgical systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. as a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we expect gross profit margins to vary over time, and changes in our gross profit margins could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our gross profit margins have fluctuated from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. our gross profit margins may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of da vinci surgical system models sold; changes in the portion of sales involving a trade-in of another system and the amount of trade-in credits given; 18 table of contents introduction of new products, which may have lower margins than our existing products; our ability to maintain or reduce production costs; changes to our pricing strategy; changes in competition; changes in production volume driven by demand for our products; changes in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs; inventory obsolescence and product recall charges; and market conditions. if we are unable to offset the unfavorable impact of the factors noted above by increasing the volume of products shipped, reducing product manufacturing costs or otherwise, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we experience long and variable capital sales cycles and seasonality in our business, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable. in addition, sales to some of our customers are subject to competitive bidding or public tender processes. these approval processes can be lengthy. in addition, idn groups are creating larger networks of da vinci system operators, have increasing purchasing power, and are increasingly evaluating their da vinci surgery programs to optimize the efficiency of the da vinci system operations. as a result, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines. further, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. as a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first and third fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpopexies, hernia repair, cholecystectomies, and certain other surgeries. many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. historically, we have experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases by customers. the above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. sales outside of the u.s. account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in operations outside of the u.s. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our activities outside of the u.s. our business currently depends in part on our activities in markets outside of the u.s. revenue from markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 29% , 30% , and 28% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our ous business activities. these challenges include: failure to obtain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the united states; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in ous markets; local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products; inability or regulatory limitations on our ability to move goods across borders; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-u.s. operations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building and maintaining an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. 19 table of contents a large portion of our ous sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in ous markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges our ous operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, which subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the markets serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. in addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them. please see our risk factor below titled unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. the actions of our distributors may affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if the distributor holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance. it may be difficult, expensive and time consuming for us to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance in such case. we are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers, which could result in material losses. we believe customer financing through leasing is an important consideration for some of our customers and have experienced an increase in demand for customer financing. we may experience loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to the contractual lease terms. our exposure to the credit risks relating to our lease financing arrangements may increase if our customers are adversely affected by changes in healthcare laws, coverage and reimbursement, economic pressures or uncertainty, or other customer-specific factors. although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing credit risks relating to these lease financing arrangements. although we have not experienced significant credit losses to date, should the level of credit losses we experience in the future exceed our expectations, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relates to revenue and operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects our foreign currency-denominated revenue. margins on ous revenue could also be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as we may not be able to raise local prices to fully offset the strengthening of the u.s. dollar. conversely, the strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, while generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings, may cause us to reduce pricing on our products in our markets outside of the u.s. and may cause us to incur losses on our foreign currency hedging instruments, thereby limiting the benefit that strengthened foreign currencies could have on our results of operations. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity, and expense. although we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to transactions denominated in the euro, japanese yen, korean won, british pound, and the swiss franc, and we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary, our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact caused by unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market value of our investments. our investment portfolio includes both domestic and international investments. the credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity concerns, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk or other factors. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could fluctuate substantially. our other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of investments, impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments, changes in interest rates, increases or decreases in cash balances, volatility in foreign exchange rates, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investments may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. while we have not realized any significant losses on our cash equivalents or marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 20 table of contents if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our success depends on the quality and reliability of our products. while we subject components sourced and products manufactured to stringent quality specifications and processes, our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and computer software, any of which may contain errors or exhibit failures, especially when products are first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, we and our customers have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products. although our products are subject to stringent quality processes and controls, we cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors, or performance problems in the future. if we experience product flaws or performance problems, any or all of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. costs associated with product flaws or performance problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products that could be expensive, divert management's attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims, which are inherent to the medical device industry. product liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class. we currently are subject to product liability claims, which are described in more detail in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, and which have been brought by or on behalf of individuals alleging that they have sustained personal injuries and/or death as a result of purported product defects, the alleged failure to warn, and/or the alleged inadequate training by us of physicians regarding the use of the da vinci surgical system. the individuals who have brought the product liability claims seek recovery for the alleged personal injuries and in many cases, punitive damages. current product liability claims have resulted in negative publicity regarding our company, and these and any other product liability or negligence claims or product recalls also could harm our reputation. please see our risk factor below titled negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues for additional risks related to the potential effects of negative publicity on our business. the outcome of product liability litigation is inherently uncertain and difficult to quantify, and the magnitude of potential damages, if any, may not be known for a substantial period of time. in addition, we self-insure our product liability risks. current or future product liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal costs (including settlements, judgments, legal fees, and other related defense costs). it is possible that product liability claims and legal costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. there have been articles published and papers written questioning patient safety and efficacy associated with da vinci surgery, the cost of da vinci surgery relative to other disease management methods, and the adequacy of surgeon training. negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. in addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, regardless of whether these claims are meritorious. the number of claims could be further increased by plaintiffs' law firms that use a wide variety of media to advertise their services and solicit clients for product liability cases against us. 21 table of contents unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings, including purported class action and derivative lawsuits and product liability litigation, are described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. the results of these lawsuits and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. accordingly, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses related to these lawsuits and proceedings. in addition, we self-insure our products liability risks. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. if we do not prevail in the purported class action and derivative lawsuit, product liability litigation, or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to significant, uninsured liabilities. for certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. for example, we self-insure our product liability risks and we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not insure for the underlying losses. we also do not carry, among other types of coverage, earthquake insurance. in addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors' and officers' insurance may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases we are self-insured completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we (or our critical suppliers) may encounter difficulties in scaling up or maintaining production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; import or export restrictions on components, materials or technology; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. 22 table of contents in the united states, hospitals generally bill for the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid, and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in ous markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many ous markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled healthcare reform legislation in the u.s. may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities, and other business disruptions, including but not limited to internet security threats, could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. for example, the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan and their aftermath created economic uncertainty and disrupted economic activities in japan, including a reduction in hospital spending. furthermore, our corporate headquarters and many of our operations, including certain of our manufacturing facilities, are located in california, a seismically active region. we do not have multiple-site capacity for all of our operations in the event of a business disruption. a natural disaster in any of our major markets, or an unanticipated business disruption caused, for example, by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks, or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. epidemic diseases or the perception of their effect could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as the ebola virus, middle east respiratory syndrome, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or the h1n1 virus, could divert medical resources and priorities towards the treatment of that disease. an outbreak of a contagious disease could also negatively affect hospital admission rates. this could negatively impact the number of da vinci procedures performed and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we may enter into collaboration arrangements, licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships with third parties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows . from time to time, we enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships to complement or augment our research and development, product development, training, procedure development, and marketing efforts. proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. in addition, other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology, or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. as a result, we may not identify, secure, or complete any such arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or on otherwise favorable terms, if it all. even if we do complete such arrangements, there can be no assurance that we will achieve expected results to justify the transaction. entering into a collaboration agreement or similar transaction may involve significant expense and divert the focus or attention of our management and other key personnel. any of these agreements may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near and long-term expenditures, or disrupt our ordinary business activities. such arrangements may also expose us 23 table of contents to numerous known and unknown risks, including unique risks with respect to the economic, political and regulatory environment of any foreign entities with whom we partner. in addition, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding any collaboration or other arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our collaborators may have economic or business interests that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our interests. it is possible that conflicts may arise with our collaborators, such as conflicts concerning the achievement of performance milestones, or the interpretation of significant terms under any agreement, such as those related to financial obligations, termination rights or the ownership or control of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or our business may be harmed. we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands, and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products, or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, we acquired certain intellectual property, know-how, and employees from luna innovations, inc. in january 2014 and reacquired the japan distribution rights from our former japanese distributor in june 2014. if we are unable to effectively transition the sales, marketing, regulatory and other operational functions in japan, our japanese business could be disrupted. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies, or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. an acquired company may have deficiencies in product quality or regulatory marketing authorizations which are not detected during due diligence activities or which are unasserted at the time of acquisition. it may be difficult, expensive and time consuming for us to re-establish market access, regulatory compliance, or cure such deficiencies in product quality in such cases which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, or cash flows. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors, or other partners for a variety of reasons, including that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the reevaluation of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. we use estimates, make judgments and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. as these estimates, judgments, and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time may lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes as well as the number and type (cancerous or benign) of certain da vinci procedures performed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. our estimates of surgical market sizes or the number and type of da vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations, but are used to estimate the progress of our business. estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and the number and type of da vinci procedures and the accuracy of these estimates may be impacted over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, distributor reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee, and other factors. in addition, from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and the number and type of da vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting. 24 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. tax rates in these jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic and/or political conditions. a number of other factors may also impact our future effective tax rate including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in availability of tax credits, tax holidays, and tax deductions; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. our business requires us to use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information ( pii ). this may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. we require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. we also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. these security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. while we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. we may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service and may harm our business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of pii, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of our products and services could decrease. we would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. risks relating to our regulatory environment healthcare reform legislation in the u.s. may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. one of the principal aims of the ppaca as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to an estimated 24 million americans who are currently uninsured. the consequences of the coverage expansions on the sales of our products are unknown and speculative at this point. 25 table of contents the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansions among other things. this includes fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. for sales on or after january 1, 2013, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain u.s. medical device revenues. though there were some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax did apply to all or most of our products sold within the united states. in december 2015, president obama signed into law the appropriations act. the appropriations act includes a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax such that medical device revenues in 2016 and 2017 will be exempt from the excise tax. unless there is further legislative action during that two-year period, the tax will be automatically reinstated for sales of medical devices on or after january 1, 2018. the ppaca also establishes a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee and identify priorities in comparative clinical effectiveness research in an effort to coordinate and develop such research; implements payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians, and other providers to improve the coordination, quality, and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models; and creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce medicare spending if projected medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. the ppaca provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research also extend the initiatives of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, known as the stimulus package, which included $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. this stimulus funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or reviewing research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products. the ppaca appropriates additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research. although congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it remains unclear how the research will impact current medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies. the taxes imposed by the ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. on august 2, 2011, the u.s. president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. this included aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013, and will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. macra repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. it is unclear what impact macra may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we expect that additional state and federal health care reform measures may be adopted in the future, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on certain development projects. the u.s. government has in the past considered, is currently considering, and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. state and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted similar types of policies. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the united states or elsewhere, and current uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. we are unable to predict whether other healthcare policies, including policies stemming from legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect such policies would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act requires us to track and disclose the source of any tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten used in manufacturing which may originate in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining regions (so called conflict minerals ). these metals are central to the technology industry and are present in some of our products as component parts. in most cases no acceptable alternative material exists which has the necessary properties. because it is not 26 table of contents possible to determine the source of the metals by analysis, we must obtain a good faith description of the source of the intermediate components and raw materials from parties in our supply chain. the components that incorporate those metals may originate from many sources and we purchase fabricated products from manufacturers who may have a long and difficult-to-trace supply chain. as the spot price of these materials varies, producers of the metal intermediates can be expected to change the mix of sources used. accordingly, components and assemblies we buy may have a mix of sources as their origin. we are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. there can be no assurance we can obtain this information accurately or reliably, or at all, from intermediate producers who may be unwilling or unable to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. in addition, these metals are subject to price fluctuations and shortages which can affect our ability to obtain the manufactured materials we rely on at favorable terms or from consistent sources. these changes could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture and market our devices and products. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, prohibit payments or other remuneration that could be considered to induce hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order, of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid and any other third-party payor programs. further, the ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the ppaca provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. although we would not submit claims directly to government payors, manufacturers can be held liable under the federal false claim act if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. these laws may affect our sales, marketing, and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial and include exclusion from government healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. the ppaca also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, as well as any transfers of value made to such physician owners and investors, during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. device manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year. in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. certain states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance of one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties. compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our ous operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the united states and/or abroad. these numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. 27 table of contents our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory review process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory authorizations, we will not be able to provide our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda. the fda regulates the development, bench and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, sales, distribution and post-market support and medical device reporting in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food drug and cosmetic act ( ffdca ). clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered ( pre-amendment ) status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application ( pma ) for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the united states. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. a pma is typically a much more complex, lengthy and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. in some cases such studies may be requested for a 510(k) as well. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude the sale of new products in the united states. moreover, we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, in which case the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the fda or other regulatory agencies may change their policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis. we may be found noncompliant as a result of future changes in, or interpretations of, regulations by the fda or other regulatory agencies. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a medical device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board ( irb ) approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption ( ide ) application. many of our products to date have been or would be considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the united states for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to conduct studies which comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certainty that clinical trials will meet desired endpoints, produce meaningful or useful data and be free of unexpected adverse effects, or that the fda will accept the validity of foreign clinical study data cannot be assured, and such uncertainty could preclude or delay market clearance or authorizations resulting in significant financial costs and reduced revenue. in addition, some products may be regulated by the fda as drugs, biologics or combination devices which carry still greater requirements for clinical trials, regulatory submissions and approvals. complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous quality and post-market regulatory requirements apply, including the following: continued compliance to the qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the development and manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda's general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; 28 table of contents stringent complaint reporting and medical device reporting regulations, which requires that manufacturers keep detailed records of investigations or complaints against their devices and to report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; adequate use of the corrective and preventive actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest same; and the reporting of corrections and removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from inspectional observations (form fda 483) to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products. the fda has in the past issued and could in the future issue warning letters or other communications to us. if we fail to satisfy or remediate the matters discussed in any such warning letters or communications, the fda could take further enforcement action, including prohibiting the sale or marketing of the affected product. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the receipt of a warning letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain fda issued certificates to foreign government ( cfgs ) used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries. the fda also strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion, and other activities relating to the marketing of our products. medical devices may be promoted only for their cleared or approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the cleared or approved label. it is possible that federal or state enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under a variety of statutory authorities, including under the ffdca as well as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. in addition, any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance. we have created labeling, advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to describe specific surgical procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) indications for use stated in our 510(k) clearances. although we have relied on expert in-house and external staff, consultants and advisors, many of whom were formerly employed by fda and familiar with fda requirements, we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. from time to time we modify our products, including the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system, after we obtain 510(k) clearance from the fda for the devices in ways that we do not believe require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. if the fda disagrees with our assessments that a new 510(k) clearance was not required prior to commercializing the devices with these changes or modifications, then the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. we have a wholly owned manufacturing facility located in mexicali, mexico which manufactures reusable and disposable surgical instruments. this facility is registered with the fda as well as mexican authorities. the facility is operated under u.s. and international quality system regulations including those applicable to canada, the european union, and japan among others. our wholly owned manufacturing facility in mexicali, mexico has an fda establishment registration but has not been inspected by the fda to date. if the fda were to determine non-conformances in our product documentation or quality system compliance, they could hold indefinitely the importation of instruments at the border which would deprive us of the ability to sell and supply the majority of our customers until the fda requirements have been satisfied. similar supply disruptions could occur if key suppliers outside of u.s. were to encounter non-conformances with their documentation or quality system compliance. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to provide our products in foreign countries. to be able to provide our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries which may differ substantially from those of the united states. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or to obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. in particular, if the fda refuses to provide cfgs our ability to register products or renew such registrations may be delayed or denied. 29 table of contents the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the authorization to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and have maintained this authorization continuously since that time. from time to time we seek the authorization to affix the ce mark to new or modified products. subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our notified body, dgm. in september 2013, we received notice that dgm has changed their name to presafe following acquisition by a larger notified body. the change did not have any impact on our operations other than replacement of various quality system certificates with the new name. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark authorizations we have already obtained including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives. we cannot be certain we will be able to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu and many affiliated countries that accept the ce mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some member states of the european union have additional requirements for registration and notification which may add to the time and effort to obtain market access. in addition, the regulations applied to end users of our products may increase over time, forcing us to provide additional solutions to regulations which do not apply directly to us, but which apply indirectly as they may limit our customers' ability to use our products. to date, we received shonin approval from the japanese ministry of health, labor and welfare ( mhlw ) for our da vinci , si , and xi surgical systems and various associated instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci procedures. we may seek additional approvals for other products and/or procedures, however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, because not all of our instruments have received shonin approval, and reimbursement is an additional process to generate market acceptance, it is possible that approved procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. to date, we have received reimbursement approval for prostatectomy in japan. there are multiple pathways to obtain reimbursement for procedures including those that require in-country clinical data and which are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. our capital sales in china are subject to importation authorizations and central purchasing tender processes. therefore, future system sales and our ability to grow future procedure volumes are dependent on the completion of these central purchasing tender authorizations, the most recent of which expired at the end of 2015. the timing and magnitude of these future authorizations, which may determine our system placements in future years, is not certain and we expect to continue to experience variability in the timing of capital sales in china. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or other manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, import/export of our products and/or recall some products which would result in significant product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the fda and other regulatory agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr and other regulatory requirements. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization ( iso ) quality system standards as well as european directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in the european union. in addition, many countries such as canada and japan have very specific additional regulatory requirements for quality assurance and manufacturing. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements, as well as iso or other regulatory standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we continue to be subject to fda and certain other inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. our sunnyvale, california facility is licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we have been subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services food and drug branch and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship some products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in 2012 the state of california announced suspension of routine inspections but this 30 table of contents policy could be modified or inspections could be resumed for specific circumstances. in addition, both our sunnyvale, california and mexicali, mexico facilities are subject to periodic inspections by other regulatory bodies, including third party auditors on behalf of national regulatory authorities. compliance with multiple regulatory standards is complex, difficult and costly to maintain, and material deficiencies could result in significant limitations on our ability to manufacture, transport and sell our products in one or more countries. if hospitals and other surgery facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or other regulatory standards, they may be required to temporarily cease all or part of their da vinci utilization. our global customers are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. our customers are required to comply with applicable local and international regulations, including with respect to the reprocessing of da vinci instruments and accessories. hospitals may not follow cleaning and sterilization instructions properly, or equipment used for cleaning and sterilization may malfunction or be used improperly. if our customers deviate from cleaning and sterilization instructions, regulatory authorities may require them to suspend use of da vinci surgical systems. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to replace our patents by the time they expire or to fully protect our intellectual property from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. new competitors have emerged and will continue to emerge in medical robotics. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies as older patents expire. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party's products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent oppositions, reviews, or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection in some or all countries outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be u.s. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present or future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. 31 table of contents the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in patent administrative proceedings are successful, our patent portfolio may be adversely affected. if third parties in any patent action are successful, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with several industry partners. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts' or investors' expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products achieve and maintain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock and the value of your investment will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2012, the nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $588.28 and a low of $440.00, during fiscal 2013, it reached a high of $583.67 and a low of $355.93, during fiscal 2014, it reached a high of $540.63 and a low of $352.35, and during fiscal 2015, it reached a high of $557.20 and a low of $454.86. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; 32 table of contents introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals and enforcement actions; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; litigation; and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past, especially recently. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including us, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. consolidated cash flow data years ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 771.9 $ 665.1 $ 880.0 investing activities (849.5 ) (153.9 ) 259.0 financing activities 193.4 (692.4 ) (910.6 ) effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (1.5 ) (0.6 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 114.3 $ (181.8 ) $ 228.4 operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , cash provided by our operating activities of $771.9 million exceeded our net income of $588.8 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included non-cash charges primarily in the form of share-based compensation of $ 167.9 million , depreciation and loss of disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $ 65.1 million , income tax benefits from employee stock plans of $ 21.5 million , amortization of intangible assets of $ 24.4 million , and accretion of discounts and amortization of premiums on investments of $ 26.4 million . 2. the non-cash charges outlined above were partly offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in $92.5 million of cash used by operating activities. operating assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue, other accrued liabilities, and prepaid expenses. accounts receivable increased $ 79.2 million in 2015 reflecting higher sales in 2015 and timing of sales and collections. prepaids and other assets increased $ 10.5 million primarily driven by higher lease receivable balances resulting from sales-type lease arrangements entered into in 2015. accrued liabilities decreased by $ 10.5 million mainly due to settlement payments made related to accrued product liability litigation. other changes in operating assets and liabilities include an inventory increase of $ 10.7 million , net of equipment transfers from inventories to property, plant and equipment, and a decrease in accounts payable of $ 11.3 million also resulted in cash used by operating activities. the unfavorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by a $ 21.5 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits and an $ 8.2 million increase of deferred revenue. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service revenue that is being recognized as revenue over the service contract period, increased primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts existed. for the year ended december 31, 2014, cash flow from operations of $665.1 million exceeded our net income of $418.8 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included substantial non-cash charges primarily in the form of share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes, and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $232.1 million during the year ended december 31, 2014. 2. changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in approximately $14.2 million in cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2014 50 table of contents accrued liabilities increased $63.4 million, mainly driven by an increase in product liability accruals. deferred revenue increased by $19.8 million in 2014 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts existed. also, accrued compensation and accounts payable increased $39.1 million. the favorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $13.7 million in 2014 reflecting timing of our system sales and related collections, a net increase in inventory of $26.8 million primarily due to expanded product offerings, and an increase in prepaids and other assets of $67.6 million, primarily driven by timing of tax payments and an increase in lease receivables relating to sales-type lease arrangements entered into during 2014. for the year ended december 31, 2013, cash flow from operations of $880.0 million exceeded our net income of $671.0 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes, and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $231.0 million during the year ended december 31, 2013. 2. changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting in cash used in operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2013 was approximately $22.0 million. accounts receivable decreased by $68.9 million in 2013 reflecting lower system sales. inventory increased by $58.1 million in 2013 due to expanded product offerings and safety stocks acquired for key components. deferred revenue increased $15.3 million in 2013 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities decreased by $35.1 million in 2013 primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2013. investing activities net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015 , consisted of purchases of investments (net of the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments) of $768.5 million and purchases of property and equipment $81.0 million. net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2014, consisted primarily of cash used for purchases of property and equipment of $105.6 million and purchases of businesses of $84.3 million, partially offset by the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments (net of purchases of investments) of $36.0 million. purchases of property included the acquisition of approximately 15 acres of land in sunnyvale, california for future expansion in 2014. for the year ended december 31, 2014, we acquired certain intellectual property, know-how, fixed assets, and employees from luna innovations, inc. and we reacquired the distribution rights from our former japanese distributor, adachi co, ltd. net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2013, consisted primarily of proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments (net of purchases of investments) of $363.6 million, less purchases of property and equipment and licensing of intellectual property of $104.6 million. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s. treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and/or tax exempt municipal notes, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, cash deposits, and money market funds. financing activities net cash provided by financing activities in 2015 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $ 361.1 million and excess tax benefits of $ 34.3 million , partly offset by $ 183.7 million used for the repurchase of 0.4 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlement of vested employee equity awards of $ 11.0 million . net cash used in financing activities in 2014 consisted primarily of $1.0 billion used for the repurchase of 2.5 million shares of our common stock through an accelerated share repurchase program, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $283.6 million and excess tax benefits of $24.0 million. net cash used in financing activities in 2013 consisted primarily of $1.1 billion used for the repurchase of 2.6 million shares of our common stock, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $160.6 million and excess tax benefits of $38.0 million. our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products. we have made substantial investments in our commercial operations, product development activities, facilities, and intellectual property. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements beyond one year and for the foreseeable future. 51 table of contents contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2015 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years operating leases $ 31.2 $ 6.1 $ 6.6 $ 3.7 $ 14.8 purchase commitments and obligations 232.2 225.8 6.4 total contractual obligations $ 263.4 $ 231.9 $ 13.0 $ 3.7 $ 14.8 operating leases. we lease spaces for operations in the u.s. as well as in japan, south korea, mexico, and other foreign countries. we also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our non-cancellable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and development arrangements. payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and have not been included in the table above. other commitments. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2015 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ), which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries and government agencies, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper, and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds. the securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weighted-average maturity of our investments as of december 31, 2015 was approximately 1.3 years . if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase 55 table of contents in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $9.7 million as of december 31, 2015 . we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. the uncertain financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we sell in euros and british pounds in those european markets where we have direct distribution channels, as well as in japanese yen, and in korean won. we operate in a number of markets on a direct sales basis and incur operating expenses in local currencies in europe, japan, and south korea. we also purchase certain product components from non-u.s. suppliers in local currency. as a result, because a portion of our operations consist of sales activities outside of the u.s., we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s. dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and foreign currency bank balances. for the year ended december 31, 2015 , sales denominated in foreign currencies (euro, british pound, japanese yen, and korean won) were approximately 19% of total revenue. the objective of our hedging program is to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. for the year ended december 31, 2015 , our revenue would have decreased by approximately $21.3 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate strengthened by 10%. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies to which we have exposure, after considering foreign currency hedges and offsetting positions as of december 31, 2015 , would have resulted in a less than $0.1 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. to mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. we monitor ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust our exposure to various counterparties. although we sell to distributors outside of the u.s. in u.s. dollars, strengthening of the dollar can impact our distributors' margins and could impact the end customers' ability to purchase our product if our distributors seek to recover the impact of the change in the dollar by increasing product and service prices. less than 10% of our revenue is conducted through distributors outside the u.s. strengthening of the dollar relative to non-u.s. currencies could have an adverse impact on our business. our operations outside of the u.s. are subject to risks typical of operations outside of the u.s., including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. part i item 1. business in this report, intuitive surgical, intuitive, the company, we, us, and our refer to intuitive surgical, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. intuitive , intuitive surgical , da vinci , da vinci , da vinci si hd surgical system , da vinci hd surgical system , da vinci si , da vinci xi , da vinci sp , endowrist , firefly , insite , da vinci connect , and intuitive surgical ecosystem are trademarks of intuitive surgical, inc. company background intuitive designs, manufactures and markets da vinci surgical systems and related instruments and accessories, which taken together, are advanced surgical systems that we consider an advanced generation of surgery. this advanced generation of surgery, which we call da vinci surgery, combines the benefits of minimally invasive surgery ( mis ) for patients with the ease of use, precision and dexterity of open surgery. a da vinci surgical system consists of a surgeon's console, a patient-side cart, and a high performance vision system. the da vinci surgical system translates a surgeon's natural hand movements, which are performed on instrument controls at a console, into corresponding micro-movements of instruments positioned inside the patient through small incisions, or ports. the da vinci surgical system is designed to provide its operating surgeons with intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability and three dimensional ( 3-d ), high-definition ( hd ) vision while simultaneously allowing surgeons to work through the small ports enabled by mis procedures. da vinci surgery da vinci surgery utilizes computational, robotic and imaging technologies to enable improved patient outcomes compared to other surgical and non-surgical therapies. da vinci surgery is aimed towards advancing the critical surgical ideals of entering the body less invasively, seeing anatomy more clearly, interacting with tissue more precisely and building surgical skills. the da vinci surgical system enables surgeons to avail or improve the benefits of mis to many patients who would otherwise undergo a more invasive surgery. surgeons using the da vinci system operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a 3-d, hd image of the surgical field. this immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. while seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the more intuitive open surgery technique. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human 4 table of contents wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hand. in designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy to use. our systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons: immersive 3-d visualization. our vision system includes a 3-d endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. the da vinci surgical system provides visualization of target anatomy with natural depth-of-field, enhanced contrast and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. with our firefly fluorescence imaging technology, surgeons can use our specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts beneath tissue surfaces in real-time. precise and tremor-free endoscope control. our imaging system also incorporates our proprietary navigator camera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left and right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image. endowrist instruments. our instruments are modeled after the human wrist, offering a greater range of motion than the human hand. most of our proprietary instruments, which we call endowrist instruments, incorporate wrist joints that enable surgeons to reach behind tissues and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery. intuitive instrument movements. our technology is designed to transform the surgeon's natural hand movements outside the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient's body. for example, with the da vinci surgical system, a hand movement to the right outside the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. in contrast, conventional mis instruments are long rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. in conventional mis, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon's hand and surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to translate their hand movements in that environment. scaled, tremor filtered instrument movement. with our technology, a surgeon can also use motion scaling, a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient's body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient's body. motion scaling is designed to allow precision and control for delicate tasks. in addition, our technology filters the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hands. improved surgeon ergonomics. the da vinci surgical system is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. the da vinci surgical system's design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon's console. because the da vinci surgical system's robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue. multi-specialty surgical platform. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures, within our targeted gynecologic, urologic, general surgery, cardiothoracic and head and neck specialties. to date, surgeons have used the da vinci surgical system to perform dozens of different types of surgical procedures. while we do not expect all of these different types of procedures to become widely adopted, they demonstrate the flexibility of the da vinci surgical system in approaching anatomy. advanced training tools. surgeons can efficiently train and improve their da vinci surgery skills with a group of tools unique to robotic surgery, including our da vinci skills simulator for software based skills practice and assessment, our da vinci dual console for inter-operative collaboration, and our da vinci connect networking technology for on-line proctoring. products: da vinci surgical system we have commercialized four generations of the da vinci surgical system the da vinci xi surgical system, the da vinci si surgical system, the da vinci surgical system and the standard da vinci surgical system. da vinci surgical systems are comprised of the following components: surgeon's console . the da vinci surgical system allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic console viewing a 3-d image of the surgical field. the surgeon's fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with the surgeon's hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. using electronic hardware, software, algorithms and mechanics, our technology translates the surgeon's hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of the endowrist instruments positioned inside the patient. on our most current systems, da vinci xi and da vinci si , a second surgeon's console may be used in two possible ways: to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or to act as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. with the da vinci xi and da vinci si , a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of 5 table of contents the da vinci instruments during the surgery. in addition, surgeons can control 3-d virtual pointers to augment the dual surgeon experience. patient-side cart . the patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the patient. up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned as appropriate, and then locked into place. at least two arms hold our endowrist instruments, one representing the surgeon's left hand and one representing the surgeon's right hand. a third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. a fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a third endowrist instrument to perform additional tasks. the fourth instrument arm is a standard integrated feature on the da vinci xi and si surgical systems, and is available as an upgrade on three-arm da vinci and si-e surgical systems. 3-d vision system. our vision system includes our insite 3-d endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. the resulting 3-d image has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker, and low cross fading. a digital zoom feature in the 3-d, hd vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and thereby reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. the 3-d, hd vision is a standard integrated feature on da vinci xi, si, and surgical systems. da vinci skills simulator . the skills simulator is a practice tool that gives a user the opportunity to practice his or her facility with the surgeon console controls. the skills simulator incorporates 3-d, physics-based computer simulation technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment. the user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. upon completion of a skills exercise, the skills simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. the skills simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for the da vinci xi and si surgical systems. most da vinci skills simulators have been sold in connection with our da vinci xi and si surgical systems. da vinci xi integrated table motion . integrated table motion coordinates the movements of the da vinci robot arms with an advanced operating room table, the trusystem 7000dv sold by trumpf medical tm , to enable shifting a patient's position in real-time while the da vinci surgical robotic arms remain docked. this gives operating room teams the capabilities to optimally position the operating table so that gravity exposes anatomy during multi-quadrant da vinci system procedures, maximize reach and access to target anatomy enabling surgeons to interact with tissue at an ideal working angle, and reposition the table during the procedure to enhance anesthesiologists' care of the patient. firefly fluorescence imaging . firefly is a standard feature of the da vinci xi surgical system and available on our da vinci si surgical system. this imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da vinci camera head, endoscope and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy. firefly is generally used across the categories of urology, gynecology and general surgery. standard da vinci system. during 2014, we phased out the sale of all instrument, accessory and service contract offerings for the standard da vinci surgical system. instruments and accessories endowrist instruments . we manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate wrist joints for natural dexterity, with tips customized for various surgical procedures. endowrist instruments are offered in a variety of sizes, of which 5mm and 8mm diameter sizes are the most commonly sold. at their tips, the various endowrist instruments include forceps, scissors, electrocautery, scalpels, and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon from open surgery and conventional mis. a variety of endowrist instruments may be selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. most of our endowrist instruments are sterilizable and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. a programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the da vinci system and instruments work together. in addition, the chip will generally not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. da vinci single-site. da vinci single-site is a set of non-wristed instruments and accessories that allow surgical systems to work through a single incision, typically in the umbilicus, rather than multiple incisions. single incision surgery is intended to minimize trauma to patients by reducing the number of ports required to enter the body and is typically utilized for less complex surgery than multi-port surgery. endowrist one vessel sealer . the endowrist one vessel sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7 mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. this instrument enables surgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of da vinci surgery. this instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures. 6 table of contents endowrist stapler . the endowrist stapler is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection and/or creation of anastomoses. this instrument enables operators to precisely position and fire the stapler. we market two types of staplers: the endowrist stapler 45 and 30. the endowrist stapler 45 is used in general, gynecologic and urologic surgery. the endowrist stapler 30, available with the da vinci xi surgical system, is intended to deliver particular utility with fine tissue interaction in lobectomy and other thoracic procedures. accessory products . we sell various accessory products which are used in conjunction with the da vinci surgical system as surgical procedures are performed. accessory products include sterile drapes used to help ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products such as replacement 3-d stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other items that facilitate use of the da vinci system. business strategy our goal is to fundamentally improve surgery and maximize the number of patients who can derive the benefits of mis. through the use of computer-aided robotic technologies our objective is to create value for patients, surgeons, and hospitals as summarized below: 1. patient value. we believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as: patient value = procedure efficacy/invasiveness . we define procedure efficacy as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness as how disruptive and painful the treatment is itself. when the patient value of a da vinci procedure is deemed higher than alternate treatment options, patients may seek out surgeons and hospitals that offer that specific da vinci procedure, potentially resulting in a local market share shift for the specific treatment. da vinci procedure adoption occurs procedure by procedure, and is driven by the relative patient value and total treatment costs of da vinci procedures compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state. we believe most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. our goal is to provide products to surgeons who in turn provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options. 2. surgeon value. we train surgeons on the use of our da vinci surgical system and assist them in building their practices by their delivery of high patient value. we provide an ergonomic platform for surgeons to perform their procedures. we seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy to use products. 3. hospital value. we assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value using da vinci products, thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced length of patient stay. we believe da vinci surgery is a cost effective approach to many surgeries as compared to alternative treatment options, as recognized in many published studies. clinical applications we are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and applications for da vinci surgery an important part of our creative process. we primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value, surgeon value, and hospital value. we currently focus on five surgical specialties: gynecologic surgery, urologic surgery, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. key procedures which we are focused on include da vinci prostatectomy ( dvp ), da vinci hysterectomy ( dvh ), hernia repair, da vinci cholecystectomy, da vinci colon and rectal procedures, da vinci partial nephrectomy, da vinci sacrocolpopexy, da vinci mitral valve repair, da vinci lobectomy, and da vinci transoral robotic surgery. in 2016 , total u.s. procedure volume was approximately 563,000 , of which 44% was in gynecology, 33% was in general surgery, and 19% was in urology. procedure volume from our market outside of the u.s. was approximately 190,000 in 2016 , of which most procedures were in urology. representative surgical applications are described below. gynecologic surgery hysterectomy. removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and is performed for a variety of underlying benign and cancerous conditions. hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy), or mis techniques, which include vaginal, laparoscopic, and robotic approaches. prior to the clearance of da vinci surgery for use in gynecological procedures in 2005, the majority of hysterectomies performed were open surgeries. we believe that da vinci surgery provides a large number of women the opportunity to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an alternative to an open hysterectomy, as we estimate that nearly 80% of hysterectomies are performed with a mis technique. hysterectomies for benign conditions can be performed using either multi-port or single-site technology and we believe a majority of da vinci surgery is performed using multi-port techniques. single-site instruments enable surgeons to perform surgery through a single port via the patient's belly button, allowing for virtually scarless results. sacrocolpopexy. the abdominal (open) sacrocolpopexy is one of the most successful operations for vaginal vault prolapse. sacrocolpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). a sacrocolpopexy can be performed using a conventional laparoscopic technique; however, it is generally described as difficult 7 table of contents and cumbersome to perform. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of sacrocolpopexy patients. urologic surgery prostatectomy. radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. the standard approach to removal of the prostate has been via an open surgical procedure. the conventional laparoscopic approach is an option, but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. the da vinci surgical system has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique. partial nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor). partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. excluding da vinci surgery, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy, and hand assisted laparoscopy, which is a hybrid of the open and laparoscopic techniques. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients. treatment guidelines for patients with localized renal cancer recommend partial nephrectomy due to the benefits nephron-sparing surgery has in long-term patient outcomes. published clinical literature has shown that the presence of a da vinci surgical system is associated with a higher-proportion of patients receiving a guideline-recommended partial nephrectomy. general surgery colorectal surgery. these procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular the rectum or colon. common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection, and abdominoperineal resection. conventional laparoscopy is not widely employed to treat these types of diseases, due to their high degree of complexity. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system and our latest technologies, such as the da vinci xi surgical system, endowrist stapler , and endowrist vessel sealer, have enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients. hernia repair. a hernia occurs when an organ or fatty tissue squeezes through a weak spot in a surrounding muscle or connective fascia tissue. during a hernia repair surgery, the weakened abdominal wall tissue is secured and defects are repaired. common types of hernia are ventral and inguinal. ventral, or abdominal hernia, may occur through a scar after surgery in the abdomen. inguinal hernia is a bulge in the groin and is more common in men. hernia repair can be performed using traditional open surgery or mis. there is a wide-range of complexity in hernia repair surgeries and varying surgeon opinion regarding optimal surgical approach. the benefits of minimally invasive and robotic hernia repair surgery vary by patient. cholecystectomy. cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of the gall bladder, is a commonly performed general surgery procedure. cholecystectomy is the primary method for the treatment of gallstones and other gall bladder diseases. most cholecystectomies are performed using multi-port mis techniques, although some surgeons choose to perform cholecystectomy using manual single-port instrumentation. using da vinci single-site instruments, many of the technical challenges of manual single-port mis are reduced as surgeons benefit from additional precision, control, and improved ergonomics. multi-port da vinci techniques are also being used for certain cases, and firefly technology can be used to visualize biliary anatomy in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces during single-site and multi-port da vinci cholecystectomies. bariatric surgery . a body of literature points to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its secondary effects, such as diabetes. sleeve gastrectomy and roux-en-y gastric bypass ( rygb ) are the most commonly performed surgical procedures for morbid obesity in the u.s. the body habitus of morbidly obese patients can make laparoscopic surgery physically challenging for the surgeon, and certain surgeons have found value in using the da vinci surgical system to improve upon the ergonomics when performing minimally-invasive surgery in morbidly obese patients. in addition, rygb can be a technically challenging procedure because of the suturing, stapling, and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. surgeons using the da vinci surgical system have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to laparoscopic rygb. cardiothoracic surgery thoracic surgery. conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision, and esophagectomy. many thoracic procedures remain open procedures. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer mis 8 table of contents approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients and improved clinical outcomes compared to open and video-assisted thoracic surgery in published single-center, multi-center and national database clinical studies. we believe the endowrist stapler 30 may have particular utility in thoracic procedures. mitral valve repair. when patients are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are typically two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient's post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen. because mitral valve repairs are considered to be more technically challenging than mitral valve replacements, they are only performed approximately 50% of the time. several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when using the da vinci surgical system. head and neck surgery transoral surgery. head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation, or a combination of both. surgical resection performed by an open approach may require a jaw-splitting mandibulotomy. this procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is potentially traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. mis approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated by conventional endoscopic tools. chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions; however, literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients' ability to speak and swallow normally. surgeons have reported that da vinci transoral surgery allows them to treat cancers occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line-of-sight limitations of conventional transoral surgery. procedure mix our procedure business is broadly split into two categories: (1) cancer and other highly complex procedures and (2) less complex procedures for benign conditions. cancer and other highly complex procedures tend to be reimbursed at higher rates than less complex procedures for benign conditions. thus, hospitals are more sensitive to the costs associated with treating less complex benign conditions. our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economic solutions in each of these categories. our fully featured da vinci xi system with advanced instruments including the endowrist one vessel sealer, endowrist stapler products, and our table motion product target the more complex procedure segment. lower priced products, including the three-arm da vinci si-e system, refurbished da vinci si , and lower priced single-site instruments are targeted towards less complex procedures. clinical summary we believe there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the da vinci surgical system and we work closely with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in which da vinci may bring value. as of december 31, 2016 , we had an installed base of 3,919 da vinci surgical systems, including 2,563 in the u.s., 665 in europe, 502 in asia, and 189 in the rest of the world. we estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 753,000 surgical procedures of various types in hospitals throughout the world during the year ended december 31, 2016 . of those da vinci procedures performed in 2016 , we estimate that approximately 222,000 were dvh procedures and approximately 162,000 were dvp procedures. sales and customer support sales model we provide our products through direct sales organizations in the u.s., japan, south korea, and europe, excluding spain, portugal, italy, greece, and eastern european countries. in the remainder of our markets outside of the u.s. ( ous ), we provide our products through distributors. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 . during the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , domestic revenue accounted for 72% , 71% , and 70% , respectively, of total revenue, while revenue from our ous markets accounted for 28% , 29% , and 30% , respectively. as of december 31, 2016 , and 2015 , 86% and 88% of all long-lived assets were in the united states. our direct sales organization is composed of a capital sales team, responsible for selling da vinci surgical systems, and a clinical sales team, responsible for supporting da vinci surgical system use in surgical procedures performed at our hospital accounts. our hospital accounts include both individual hospitals and health care facilities and hospitals and health care facilities that are part of an integrated delivery network ( idn groups ). the initial da vinci surgical system sale into an account as a major capital equipment purchase by our customers typically has a lengthy sales cycle that can be affected by macroeconomic factors, capital spending prioritization, timing of budgeting cycles, and competitive bidding processes. capital sales activities include educating surgeons and hospital staff across multiple surgical specialties on the benefits of da vinci surgery, total treatment costs, and the clinical applications that our technology enables. we also train our sales organization to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including clinical benefits of da vinci surgery, potential reductions in 9 table of contents complications and length of stay, and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction, surgeon recruitment, and procedure volume. our clinical sales team works on site at the hospitals, interacting with surgeons, operating room staff, and hospital administrators to develop and sustain successful robotics surgery programs. they assist the hospital in identifying surgeons who have an interest in robotic surgery and the potential benefits provided by the da vinci surgical system. our clinical sales team provides the current clinical information on robotic surgery practices and new product applications to the hospital teams and has grown with the expanded installed base of da vinci surgical systems and the total number of procedures performed. we expect this organization to continue to grow as our business expands. our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. orders received are typically shipped within one business day. direct customers who purchase a new da vinci surgical system typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories within one month of receiving their system. our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first and third fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. in addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarter. procedures treating benign conditions are typically higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter. timing of procedures and changes in procedure volume impact the timing of instrument and accessory and capital purchases. customer support and training programs we have a network of field service engineers across the u.s., europe, and asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. this infrastructure of service and support specialists offers a full complement of services, including 24/7 support, installation, repair, and maintenance for our customers. we generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs. we provide basic system training that teaches the fundamental operating principles of the da vinci surgical system to surgeons, surgical assistants, and operating room nurses. we have established training centers where initial system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. surgeons may also practice their robotic surgery technique using our da vinci skills simulator. in addition, we help facilitate the proctoring of surgeons who are new to da vinci surgery by experienced da vinci surgical system users. proctors provide training to other surgeons on how to perform certain surgical procedures with da vinci surgical systems. research and development we focus our research and development efforts on providing our customers with new products and product improvements that enable them to perform mis procedures with less difficulty. we employ research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. we invested $239.6 million , $197.4 million , and $178.0 million of research and development expenses for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. we establish strategic alliances with other medical device and technology based companies to complement our research and development effort. to date, these alliances have taken several forms, including cooperation in the areas of product development, training, procedure development, and marketing activities. we have formed alliances with several companies, including, but not limited to, erbe elektromedizin gmbh, johnson &amp; johnson, olympus corporation, novadaq technologies, inc., mimic technologies, inc., schoelly fiberoptic gmbh, trumpf medical (a division of hill-rom holdings, inc.), intouch technology inc., dextera surgical inc. and 3d systems, inc. in september 2016, we agreed to establish a joint venture with shanghai fosun pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. fosun pharma , a subsidiary of fosun international limited, to research, develop, manufacture, and sell robotic-assisted catheter-based medical devices. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis for further details on the joint venture with fosun pharma. manufacturing we manufacture our da vinci surgical systems at our facility in sunnyvale, california. we manufacture our instruments at our sunnyvale facility and our mexicali, mexico facility. we purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). we purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods. 10 table of contents competition we face competition in the forms of existing open surgery, conventional mis, drug therapies, radiation treatment, and emerging interventional surgical approaches. our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability as well as educating hospitals, surgeons and patients on the demonstrated results associated with da vinci surgery and its value relative to other techniques. we also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the mis market. we believe that many companies are focused on adding capability to manual mis systems. because many of these developments are aimed at mis, we believe that our da vinci surgical system may prove complementary to some of these new technologies. moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g. single-site , endowrist stapler, and vessel sealer) that compete with product offerings traditionally within the domains of open surgery and/or conventional mis, we face greater competition from larger and well established companies such as ethicon endo-surgery, inc. furthermore, as da vinci use increases, a number of companies have introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit statements to enter the field of robotic surgery, including: auris surgical robotics, inc.; avatera medical gmbh; cambridge medical robotics ltd; johnson &amp; johnson and google inc. and their joint venture, verb surgical inc.; medicaroid inc.; medrobotics corp.; meerecompany inc.; medtronic plc; olympus corp.; samsung corporation; smart robot technology group co. ltd.; transenterix inc.; and titan medical inc. companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. in addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. our revenues may be adversely impacted as our competitors announce their intent to enter our markets and as our customers anticipate the availability of competing products. intellectual property we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes. we generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. for example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. we also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own large and robust patent portfolio. as of december 31, 2016 , we held ownership or exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 2,400 u.s. and foreign patents and more than 1,800 u.s. and foreign patent applications. we intend to continue filing new patent applications in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology. patents are granted for finite terms. upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a patent enter the public domain. government regulation our products and operations are subject to regulation by the fda, the state of california and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate our compliance into the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to meet these standards could limit our ability to market our products in those regions which require compliance to such standards. examples of standards to which we are subject include electrical safety standards such as those of the international electrotechnical commission (e.g. iec 60601-ss series of standards), and composition standards such as the reduction of hazardous substances ( rohs ) and the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directives. united states the fda regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing, distribution, and service of medical devices in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in addition, the fda regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the u.s. to markets outside of the u.s. and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad. under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act ( ffdca ), medical devices are classified into one of three classes class i, class ii or class iii depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. our current products are class i and class ii medical devices. class ii devices are those which are subject to general controls and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the fda, and clearance by the fda. premarket review and clearance by the fda for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process. unless a class ii 11 table of contents device is exempt from premarket review, the manufacturer must submit to the fda a premarket notification submission demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent in intended use and technology to a predicate device that is either: 1. a device that has grandfather marketing status because it was legally marketed prior to may 28, 1976, the date upon which the medical device amendments of 1976 were enacted, or 2. a device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process. if the fda agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the u.s. the fda has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission, or a guidance-based 30-day period for special 510(k) submissions which have a more restrictive scope and generally involve more specific or very limited changes to a legally marketed device. as a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. the fda may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. if the fda determines that the device, or its intended use, is not substantially equivalent, the fda may deny the request for clearance. although unlikely for the types of products marketed by us, the fda may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into class iii, and the device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-market approval ( pma ) requirements. a pma application, which is intended to demonstrate that a device is safe and effective, must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. the fda, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review a pma application, though the review more often occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. in approving a pma application or clearing a 510(k) submission, the fda may also require some form of post-market surveillance when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. in such cases, the manufacturer might be required to follow certain patient groups for a number of years and makes periodic reports to the fda on the clinical status of those patients. after a device receives fda 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pma application approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make the determination of whether a modification requires a new 510(k) notification or pma application in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer's decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or pma approval for a particular change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease u.s. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. in addition, after a device is placed on the market, numerous fda and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. these include establishment registration and device listing with the fda; compliance with medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may present a risk to health. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the u.s. have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the fda's good manufacturing practice ( gmp ) requirements contained in its quality system regulation ( qsr ) and associated regulations and guidance. the qsr covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with fda regulation, the manufacturer's own procedures, specifications and testing as well as distribution and post-market experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the u.s. a company's facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the fda, which may issue reports known as forms fda 483 or notices of inspectional observations which list instances where the fda inspector believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if the observations are sufficiently serious or the manufacturer fails to respond appropriately, the fda may issue warning letters, or untitled letters, which are notices of potential enforcement actions against the manufacturer. if a warning letter or untitled letter is not addressed to the satisfaction of the fda, or if the fda becomes aware of any other serious issue with a manufacturer's products or facilities, it could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the u.s., and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. in the u.s., routine fda inspections usually occur every two years, and may occur more often for cause. 12 table of contents to a greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include periodic inspections, inspections by third party auditors, and specialized documentation. failure to meet all the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support and receive reimbursement for the use of our products in these countries. in addition to the above, we may seek to conduct clinical studies or trials in the u.s. or other countries on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for a particular indication. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such investigational use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board ( irb ). failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject the company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot assure that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. products manufactured outside the u.s. by or for us are subject to u.s. customs and fda inspection upon entry into the u.s. we must demonstrate compliance of such products to u.s. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays. california regulation the state of california requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and until 2012 conducted periodic inspections of medical device manufacturers. our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in july 2011 and were found to be in compliance. in accordance with the state of california regulations, our license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information. although the state of california has announced suspension of routine periodic inspections, there can be no assurance the state of california will not resume such inspections or conduct such inspections under specific circumstances which are not yet known. foreign regulation in order for us to market our products in countries outside the united states, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations in other countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. some countries have regulatory review processes which are substantially longer than u.s. processes. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive regulatory approval. we obtained from the japanese ministry of health, labor, and welfare ( mhlw ) approval for our da vinci si surgical systems in october 2012 and approval for our da vinci xi surgical systems in march 2015. national reimbursement status was received in japan for dvp procedures, effective april 2012 and for da vinci partial nephrectomy procedures in april 2016. we are currently seeking reimbursement for additional procedures through the mhlw's senshin iryo processes as well as alternative reimbursement processes. our senshin iryo approvals require in-country clinical data and are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years. commercialization of medical devices in europe is regulated by the european union ( eu ). the eu presently requires that all medical products bear the conformit europ enne ( ce ) mark, for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and performance mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu and those affiliated countries which accept the ce mark. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to affix the ce mark on products, a recognized european notified body must certify a manufacturer's quality system and design dossier for compliance with international and european requirements. we have received authorization from presafe denmark a/s (formerly dgm denmark a/s), a recognized european notified body and part of nemko presafe a/s, to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and accessories. to maintain authorization to apply the ce mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. in september 2013, the european commission adopted a recommendation indicating that all notified bodies, including presafe, should carry out unannounced audits, at least once every third year, of the manufacturers whose medical devices they have certified. these unannounced audits can also extend to the manufacturer's critical suppliers or sub-contractors (those that supply a critical input or perform a critical function for the manufacturer). 13 table of contents if we modify our existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu or those whose marketing authorizations are based on the ce mark. regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. certain countries, such as china and south korea, have their own regulatory agencies. these countries typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. our system sales into china are also dependent on obtaining importation authorizations and hospitals completing a central purchasing tender process under the authorization, the most recent of which expired at the end of 2015. in addition, local regulations may apply which govern the use of our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. all such regulations are revised from time to time and in general are increasing in complexity, and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing required. there can be no assurance the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. there are further regulations governing the importation, marketing, sale, distribution, use and service as well as the removal and disposal of medical devices in the regions in which we operate and market our products. failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions or fines, and could prevent us from marketing our products in these regions. other healthcare laws we are also subject to federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency, privacy, and security laws and regulations. these laws include: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the medicare and medicaid programs. a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal anti-kickback statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims act; federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary's decision to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier; federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; the federal physician payment sunshine act, which requires (i) manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under medicare, medicaid or the children's health insurance program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ) information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and (ii) applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to cms ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members, and payments or other transfers of value to such physician owners. manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year; and analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device manufacturers to report 14 table of contents information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. if our operations are found to violate any of the laws described above or any other laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from our participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to market our products and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. third-party coverage and reimbursement in the u.s. and most markets ous where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all covered surgical procedures. governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and physicians for surgery when the procedure is considered medically necessary. in the u.s., cms administers the medicare and medicaid programs (the latter, along with applicable state governments). many other third-party payors model their reimbursement methodologies after the medicare program. as the single largest payor, this program has a significant impact on other payors' payment systems. generally, reimbursement for professional services performed at a facility by physicians is reported under billing codes issued by the american medical association ( ama ), known as current procedural terminology ( cpt ) codes. physician reimbursement under medicare generally is based on a fee schedule and determined by the relative values of the professional service rendered. in addition, cms and the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to billing codes used by hospitals to report inpatient procedures, known as icd-9-cm procedural codes prior to october 1, 2015, and icd-10-pcs codes on and after october 1, 2015. for medicare, cms generally reimburses hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay based on a prospective payment system that is determined by a classification system known as medicare-severity diagnostic related groupings ( ms-drgs ). ms-drgs are assigned using a number of factors including the principal diagnosis, major procedures, discharged status, patient age and complicating secondary diagnoses among other things. hospital outpatient services, reported by cpt codes, are assigned to clinically relevant ambulatory payment classifications ( apcs ) used to determine the payment amount for services provided. on october 1, 2008, cms and nchs issued a new family of icd-9-cm procedure codes for robotically assisted procedures . the purpose of the icd-9-cm family of procedure codes, 17.4x, was to gather data on robotic assisted surgical procedures. on and after october 1, 2015, a new family of icd-10-pcs codes may be used-in conjunction with other applicable procedure codes-to describe various robotic assisted procedures. an inpatient surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the clinically relevant ms-drg. governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, contract terms, and other factors. because both hospitals and physicians may receive the same reimbursement for their respective services, with or without robotics, regardless of actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care, including for the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products. domestic institutions typically bill various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products. because our da vinci surgical system has been cleared for commercial distribution in the u.s. by the fda, coverage and reimbursement by payors are generally determined by the medical necessity of the primary surgical procedure. we believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies for appropriately selected patients. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. in countries outside the u.s., reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. in most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. in addition, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain european countries. to effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek ous reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. in some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such co-pay practices are not common in most countries. 15 table of contents in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), which makes changes that significantly impact healthcare providers, insurers, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansion, including, but not limited to fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. for sales between january 1, 2013 and december 31, 2015, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% on certain u.s. medical device revenues. under this provision, we incurred an excise tax of approximately $17.0 million in 2015 which was included as a cost of revenue and a reduction of product gross profit margin. in december, 2015, president obama signed into law the consolidated appropriations act, 2016 (the appropriations act ). the appropriations act includes a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax such that medical device sales in 2016 and 2017 are exempt from the medical device excise tax. unless there is further legislative action, the tax will be automatically reinstated for sales of medical devices on or after january 1, 2018. the ppaca also appropriates funding to research the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. it remains unclear how this research will influence future medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions, as well as influence other third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies. as the u.s. congress and state governments determine how to implement the ppaca, the full impact of the ppaca on the medical device industry and the sale of our products is currently unknown. the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the taxes imposed by ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits, lower reimbursement from payors for procedures that use our products and/or reduced procedural volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. these changes included an aggregate reduction in medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, enacted on april 16, 2015 ( macra ), repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. there have also been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ppaca, and we expect that the u.s. federal government will seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. for instance, on january 20, 2017, an executive order was issued, which stated that it is the u.s. federal government's policy to seek the prompt repeal of the ppaca, and directed the heads of all executive departments and agencies to minimize the economic and regulatory burdens of the ppaca to the maximum extent permitted by law. any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would affect our ability to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. employees as of december 31, 2016 , we had 3,755 employees, 466 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 1,529 in manufacturing and service and 1,760 in marketing, sales, and administrative activities. none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. general we make our periodic and current reports, including our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, our code of business conduct and ethics policy and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com and the reports are filed under sec filings, on the company investor relations portion of our website. periodically, we webcast company announcements, product launch events and executive presentations which can be viewed via our investor relations page on our website. in addition, we provide notifications of our material news including sec filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our investor relations page on our website. the contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. the public may read and copy any materials filed by the company with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, room 1580, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. the contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. further, references to the urls for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 16 table of contents we operate our business as one segment as defined by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. our financial results for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 are discussed in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this annual report. intuitive surgical, inc. was founded in 1995. we are a delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1020 kifer road, sunnyvale, california 94086. our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com . item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient, and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors' acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives and the evolving u.s. health care environment following the 2016 u.s. elections. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could materially adversely affect our company. in recent years, there have been credit and sovereign debt concerns in certain european countries, as well as concerns about continued slowed economic growth in china and other ous markets, have caused economic uncertainty, disruptions in the financial credit markets, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. uncertainty about current global economic conditions continues to pose a risk as customers may choose to postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit. there could be additional effects from adverse conditions in the credit markets on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays, and the inability of our customers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. in addition, our business is closely tied to the overall u.s. healthcare system, relating to which there are concerns and uncertainties as a result of explicit statements made by the u.s. federal government about its intentions to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. in addition, the u.s. federal government has called for substantial changes to trade, fiscal, and tax policies, which may include comprehensive tax reform and changes to existing trade agreements, including, but not limited to, the north american free trade agreement ("nafta"), may have a significant impact on our operations. we cannot predict the impact, if any, that these changes could have on our business. if economic conditions worsen or fail to improve or new legislation is passed related to the healthcare system, trade, fiscal or tax policies, customer demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors' products or services or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a relatively new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, and pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community 17 table of contents and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than da vinci surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. additionally, we expect to face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. the following companies have introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field: auris surgical robotics inc.; avatera medical gmbh; cambridge medical robotics ltd; johnson &amp; johnson and google inc. and their joint venture, verb surgical inc.; medicaroid inc.; medrobotics corp.; meerecompany inc.; medtronic plc; olympus corp.; samsung corporation; smart robot technology group co. ltd.; transenterix inc.; and titan medical inc. companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. our revenues may be reduced due to pricing pressure or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations or cash flows. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. in addition, third-party service providers that provide service to da vinci surgical system operators may emerge and compete with us on price or offerings. to date, substantially all of our customers have sourced services on their da vinci surgical systems from us through service contract commitments or time and materials contracts. if we are unable to compete successfully with any third-party service providers, our revenues may suffer. recently, third party entities have begun to offer robotic surgery consulting services targeted at analyzing the cost-effectiveness of hospitals' robotic surgery programs, including procedures performed, placement of systems, and consumption of instruments and accessories. we currently provide similar services and analysis to our customers, but it is difficult to assess the impact that this may have on our business. our customers may use unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. a large portion of our revenue is generated through our sales of instruments and accessories. third parties have attempted to and may discover ways to manufacture and sell counterfeit reprocessed instruments and/or alter instruments that are compatible and function with the da vinci surgical system, and such activities may reduce our market share. our sales arrangements with customers generally prohibit the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories with the da vinci surgical systems, warranties will be void if such instruments and accessories are used, and a programmed memory chip inside each instrument is designed to prevent the instrument from being used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. however, these measures may not prevent the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories by our customers. in addition to potential reductions to our revenues and market share, sales of unauthorized instruments and accessories by third parties may create safety and health risks to da vinci patients and could cause negative publicity for us if these products cause injuries and/or do not function as intended when used with the da vinci surgical systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. new product developments and introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we develop and introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. we may introduce new products that target different markets than what our existing products target. the success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, timely and successful research and development, regulatory clearances or approvals, pricing, competition, market and consumer acceptance, the effective forecasting and management of product demand, inventory levels, the management of manufacturing and supply costs, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. we invest substantially in various research and development projects to expand our product offerings. our research and development efforts are critical to our success, and our research and development projects may not be successful. we may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products we invest in and develop may not be well-received by customers or meet our expectations. our research and development investments may not generate significant operating income or contribute to our future operating results for several years, and such contributions may not meet our expectations or even cover the costs of such investments. in addition, the introduction or announcement of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products or reduce demand for our current products, thereby offsetting any benefits of successful product introductions and potentially leading to challenges in managing inventory of existing products. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential 18 table of contents purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. we have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products in advance of new product introductions and may experience a slowdown in demand in the future as well. it is also possible that a new product introduction could cause downward pressure on the prices of our existing products or require us to change how we sell our products, either of which could have material adverse effect on our revenues. if we fail to effectively develop new products and manage new product introductions in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. we expect gross profit margins to vary over time, and changes in our gross profit margins could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our gross profit margins have fluctuated from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. our gross profit margins may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of da vinci surgical system models sold; changes in the portion of sales involving a trade-in of another system and the amount of trade-in credits given; introduction of new products, which may have lower margins than our existing products; our ability to maintain or reduce production costs; changes to our pricing strategy; changes in competition; changes in production volume driven by demand for our products; changes in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs, including impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations for foreign-currency denominated costs; changes to u.s. and foreign trade policies, including the enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the u.s., including but not limited to, goods imported from mexico where we manufacture a majority of our instruments that we sell; inventory obsolescence and product recall charges; and market conditions. if we are unable to offset the unfavorable impact of the factors noted above by increasing the volume of products shipped, reducing product manufacturing costs or otherwise, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. we experience long and variable capital sales cycles and seasonality in our business, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable. in addition, sales to some of our customers are subject to competitive bidding or public tender processes. these approval and bidding processes can be lengthy. in addition, idn groups are creating larger networks of da vinci system operators, have increasing purchasing power, and are increasingly evaluating their da vinci surgery programs to optimize the efficiency of the da vinci system operations. as a result, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines. further, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. as a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first and third fiscal quarters, and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpopexies, hernia repair, cholecystectomies, and certain other surgeries. many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. historically, we have experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases by customers. the above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that our operating results in any particular period may not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. 19 table of contents we are subject to a variety of risks due to our operations outside of the u.s. we manufacture, perform research and development activities, and distribute our products in ous markets. revenue from ous markets accounted for approximately 28% , 29% , and 30% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. our ous operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks including: failure to obtain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the united states; multiple ous regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in ous markets; local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products; inability or regulatory limitations on our ability to move goods across borders; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing ous operations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; building and maintaining an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations; anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials; and political and economic instability. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom (uk) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union (the "eu"), commonly referred to as brexit . as a result of the referendum, it is expected that the british government will begin negotiating the terms of the uk's future relationship with the eu. although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the uk and eu countries and increased regulatory complexities. in addition, the u.s. federal government has made explicit statements about its intention to make changes to u.s. trade policy, including signing an executive order to withdraw from the negotiating process of the trans-pacific partnership, renegotiate the terms of nafta, and imposing border taxes on imports into the u.s. we manufacture a majority of the instruments we sell in mexico and any legislation enacted that impacts the relationship between the u.s. and mexico and/or the continuity of nafta could adversely affect our operations and financial results. if enacted, any legislation taken by the u.s. federal government that restricts trade, such as tariffs, trade barriers, and other protectionist or retaliatory measures taken by governments in europe, asia, and other countries, could adversely impact our ability to sell products and services in our ous markets. furthermore, a large portion of our ous sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in ous markets. if we are unable to meet and manage these risks, our ous operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, which subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to sell or service our products in the markets serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. in addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them. please see our risk factor below titled we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention, and harm our business. the actions of our distributors may affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if the distributor holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance. it may be difficult, expensive and time consuming for us to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance in such case. we are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers, which could result in material losses. we believe customer financing through leasing is an important consideration for some of our customers and have experienced an increase in demand for customer financing. we may experience loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to the contractual lease terms. our exposure to the credit risks relating to our lease financing arrangements may increase if our 20 table of contents customers are adversely affected by changes in healthcare laws, coverage and reimbursement, economic pressures or uncertainty, or other customer-specific factors. although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing credit risks relating to these lease financing arrangements. although we have not experienced significant credit losses to date, should the level of credit losses we experience in the future exceed our expectations, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relates to revenue and operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects our foreign currency-denominated revenue. margins on ous revenue could also be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as we may not be able to raise local prices to fully offset the strengthening of the u.s. dollar. conversely, the strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, while generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings, may cause us to reduce pricing on our products in our ous markets and may cause us to incur losses on our foreign currency hedging instruments, thereby limiting the benefit that strengthened foreign currencies could have on our results of operations. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity, and expense. although we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to transactions denominated in the euro, japanese yen, korean won, british pound, and the swiss franc, and we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary, our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact caused by unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market value of our investments. our investment portfolio includes both domestic and international investments. the credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity concerns, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk or other factors. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could fluctuate substantially. our other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of investments, impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments, changes in interest rates, increases or decreases in cash balances, volatility in foreign exchange rates, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investments may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. while we have not realized any significant losses on our cash equivalents or marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our success depends on the quality and reliability of our products. while we subject components sourced and products manufactured to stringent quality specifications and processes, our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and computer software, any of which may contain errors or exhibit failures, especially when products are first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, we and our customers have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products. although our products are subject to stringent quality processes and controls, we cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors, or performance problems in the future. if we experience product flaws or performance problems, any or all of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; 21 table of contents increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. costs associated with product flaws or performance problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention and harm our business. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings to which we are party, including purported class actions, derivative lawsuits, and product liability litigation, are described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. in particular, our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims, which are inherent to the medical device industry. product liability claims have been brought against us by or on behalf of individuals alleging that they have sustained personal injuries and/or death as a result of purported product defects, the alleged failure to warn, and/or the alleged inadequate training by us of physicians regarding the use of the da vinci surgical system. the individuals who have brought the product liability claims seek recovery for their alleged personal injuries and in many cases, punitive damages. current product liability claims have resulted in negative publicity regarding our company, and these and any other product liability or negligence claims or product recalls also could harm our reputation. please see our risk factor below titled negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues for additional risks related to the potential effects of negative publicity on our business. the outcome of these product liability claims and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. we currently self-insure our product liability risk and maintain third party insurance coverage for certain other liabilities. however, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage from third party carriers, or our self-insurance of product liability risk, would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses related to these lawsuits and proceedings or otherwise be excluded under the terms of any third party policy. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant legal costs (including settlements, judgments, legal fees, and other related defense costs) and diversion of management attention. if we do not prevail in the purported class actions and derivative lawsuits, product liability litigation, or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. there have been articles published and papers written questioning patient safety and efficacy associated with da vinci surgery, the cost of da vinci surgery relative to other disease management methods, and the adequacy of surgeon training. negative publicity, including statements made by public officials, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. in addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, regardless of whether these claims are meritorious. the number of claims could be further increased by plaintiffs' law firms that use a wide variety of media to advertise their services and solicit clients for product liability cases against us. we are subject to significant, uninsured liabilities. for certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. for example, we self-insure our product liability risks and we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not insure for the underlying losses. we also do not carry, among other types of coverage, earthquake insurance. in addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors' and officers' insurance may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases we are self-insured completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 22 table of contents we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we (or our critical suppliers) may encounter difficulties in scaling up or maintaining production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; import or export restrictions on components, materials or technology; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. in the united states, hospitals generally bill for the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid, and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in ous markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many ous markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled changes in healthcare legislation and policy may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. 23 table of contents natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities, and other business disruptions, including but not limited to internet security threats, could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. for example, the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan and their aftermath created economic uncertainty and disrupted economic activities in japan, including a reduction in hospital spending. furthermore, our corporate headquarters and many of our operations, including certain of our manufacturing facilities, are located in california, a seismically active region. we do not have multiple-site capacity for all of our operations in the event of a business disruption. a natural disaster in any of our major markets, or an unanticipated business disruption caused, for example, by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks, or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. epidemic diseases or the perception of their effect could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as the ebola virus, middle east respiratory syndrome, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or the h1n1 virus, could divert medical resources and priorities towards the treatment of that disease. an outbreak of a contagious disease could also negatively affect hospital admission rates. this could negatively impact the number of da vinci procedures performed and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if we do not successfully manage our collaboration arrangements, licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships with third parties, we may not realize the expected benefits from such alliances and it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows . from time to time, we enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships to complement or augment our research and development, product development, training, procedure development, and marketing efforts. proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. in addition, other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology, or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. as a result, we may not identify, secure, or complete any such arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or on otherwise favorable terms, if it all. there can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these alliances. in addition, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding any collaboration or other arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our alliances may have economic or business interests that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our interests. it is possible that conflicts may arise in these relationships, such as conflicts concerning the achievement of performance milestones, or the interpretation of significant terms under any agreement, such as those related to financial obligations, termination rights or the ownership or control of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. these alliances can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of the parties involved, and we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties. the alliances may involve significant expense and divert the focus or attention of our management and other key personnel. any of these relationships may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near- and long-term expenditures, or disrupt our ordinary business activities. such arrangements may also expose us to numerous known and unknown risks, including unique risks with respect to the economic, political and regulatory environment of any foreign entities with whom we partner. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or our business may be harmed. we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands, and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products, or technologies rather than through internal development. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies, or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. an acquired company may have deficiencies in product quality or regulatory marketing authorizations which are not detected during due diligence activities or which are unasserted at the time of acquisition. it may be difficult, expensive and time consuming for us to re-establish 24 table of contents market access, regulatory compliance, or cure such deficiencies in product quality in such cases which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, or cash flows. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors, or other partners for a variety of reasons, including that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the reevaluation of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. we use estimates, make judgments and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. as these estimates, judgments, and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time may lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes as well as the number and type (cancerous or benign) of certain da vinci procedures performed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. our estimates of surgical market sizes or the number and type of da vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations, but are used to estimate the progress of our business. estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and the number and type of da vinci procedures and the accuracy of these estimates may be impacted over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, system internet connectivity, distributor reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee, and other factors. in addition, from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and the number and type of da vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting. changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. tax rates in these jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic and/or political conditions. a number of other factors may also impact our future effective tax rate including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in availability of tax credits, tax holidays, and tax deductions; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. the u.s. federal government has called for potentially substantial changes to u.s. tax policies and laws. we are unable to predict what u.s. tax reform may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect such changes would have on our business. any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and 25 table of contents sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. our business requires us to use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information ( pii ). this may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. we require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. we also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. these security measures may be compromised as a result of security breaches by unauthorized persons, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. for example, our employees have received phishing emails and phone calls attempting to induce them to divulge passwords and other sensitive information. in addition, unauthorized persons may attempt to hack into our products or systems to obtain personal data relating to patients or employees, our confidential or proprietary information or confidential information we hold on behalf of third parties. if the unauthorized persons successfully hack into or interfere with our connected products or services, they may create issues with product functionality that could pose a risk of loss of data, a risk to patient safety, and a risk of product recall or field activity. we have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents, and we make ongoing improvements to our information-sharing products in order to minimize vulnerabilities, in accordance with industry and regulatory standards. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect, we may not be able to anticipate and prevent these intrusions or mitigate them when and if they occur. we also rely on external vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. the systems of these external vendors may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security of our own systems, and we are dependent on these third parties to deploy appropriate security programs to protect their systems. while we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. we may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service and may harm our business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of pii, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of our products and services could decrease. we would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. risks relating to our regulatory environment changes in healthcare legislation and policy may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the ppaca, which made changes that have impacted and are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansions among other things. this includes fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. for sales between january 1, 2013, and december 31, 2015, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain u.s. medical device revenues. though there were some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax did apply to all or most of our products sold within the united states. in december 2015, president obama signed into law the appropriations act. the appropriations act includes a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax such that medical device revenues in 2016 and 2017 will be exempt from the excise tax. unless there is further legislative action during that two-year period, the tax will be automatically reinstated for sales of medical devices on or after january 1, 2018. the ppaca implemented a number of medicare payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians, and other providers to improve the coordination, quality, and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models, and appropriated funding for comparative effectiveness research. 26 table of contents the taxes imposed by the ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ppaca, and we expect that the u.s. federal government will seek to modify, repeal or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. for instance, on january 20, 2017, an executive order was issued, in which it was stated that it is the u.s. federal government's policy to seek the prompt repeal of the ppaca, and directed the heads of all executive departments and agencies to minimize the economic and regulatory burdens of the ppaca maximum extent permitted by law. additional state and federal health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our customers. any changes of, or uncertainty with respect to future reimbursement rates, or changes in hospital admission rates could impact our customers' demand for our products and services, which in turn could impact our ability to successfully commercialize our products, or could limit or eliminate our spending on certain development projects. these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. these changes included aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013, and will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. macra repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. it is unclear what impact macra may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. further, the federal, state and local governments, medicare, medicaid, managed care organizations, and foreign governments have in the past considered, are currently considering, and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the u.s. or other countries, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes, competitive bidding or tender processes for certain products and services, and other changes intended to reduce expenditures along with uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. we are unable to predict whether other healthcare policies, including policies stemming from legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect such policies would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act requires us to track and disclose the source of any tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten used in manufacturing which may originate in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining regions (so called conflict minerals ). these metals are central to the technology industry and are present in some of our products as component parts. in most cases no acceptable alternative material exists which has the necessary properties. because it is not possible to determine the source of the metals by analysis, we must obtain a good faith description of the source of the intermediate components and raw materials from parties in our supply chain. the components that incorporate those metals may originate from many sources and we purchase fabricated products from manufacturers who may have a long and difficult-to-trace supply chain. as the spot price of these materials varies, producers of the metal intermediates can be expected to change the mix of sources used. accordingly, components and assemblies we buy may have a mix of sources as their origin. we are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. there can be no assurance we can obtain this information accurately or reliably, or at all, from intermediate producers who may be unwilling or unable to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. in addition, these metals are subject to price fluctuations and shortages which can affect our ability to obtain the manufactured materials we rely on at favorable terms or from consistent sources. these changes could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture and market our devices and products. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, prohibit payments or other remuneration that could be considered to induce hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order, of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid and any other third-party payor programs. further, the ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. 27 table of contents a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the ppaca provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. although we would not submit claims directly to government payors, manufacturers can be held liable under the federal false claim act if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. these laws may affect our sales, marketing, and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial and include exclusion from government healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. the ppaca also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, as well as any transfers of value made to such physician owners and investors, during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. device manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year. in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. certain states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance of one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties. compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our ous operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the united states and/or abroad. these numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory review process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory authorizations, we will not be able to provide our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda. the fda regulates the development and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, sales, distribution and post-market support and medical device reporting in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food drug and cosmetic act ( ffdca ). clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered ( pre-amendment ) status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application ( pma ) for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the united states. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. a pma is typically a much more complex, lengthy and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. in some cases such studies may be requested for a 510(k) as well. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude the sale of new products in the united states. moreover, we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, in which case the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory 28 table of contents requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the fda or other regulatory agencies may change their policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis. we may be found noncompliant as a result of future changes in, or interpretations of, regulations by the fda or other regulatory agencies. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a medical device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board ( irb ) approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption ( ide ) application. many of our products to date have been or would be considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the united states for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to conduct studies which comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certainty that clinical trials will meet desired endpoints, produce meaningful or useful data and be free of unexpected adverse effects, or that the fda will accept the validity of foreign clinical study data cannot be assured, and such uncertainty could preclude or delay market clearance or authorizations resulting in significant financial costs and reduced revenue. in addition, some products may be regulated by the fda as drugs, biologics or combination devices which carry still greater requirements for clinical trials, regulatory submissions and approvals. complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous quality and post-market regulatory requirements apply, including the following: continued compliance to the qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the development and manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda's general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; stringent complaint reporting and medical device reporting regulations, which requires that manufacturers keep detailed records of investigations or complaints against their devices and to report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; adequate use of the corrective and preventive actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest same; and the reporting of corrections and removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from inspectional observations (form fda 483) to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products. the fda has in the past issued and could in the future issue warning letters or other communications to us. if we fail to satisfy or remediate the matters discussed in any such warning letters or communications, the fda could take further enforcement action, including prohibiting the sale or marketing of the affected product. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the receipt of a warning letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain fda issued certificates to foreign government ( cfgs ) used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries. the fda also strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion, and other activities relating to the marketing of our products. medical devices may be promoted only for their cleared or approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the 29 table of contents cleared or approved label. it is possible that federal or state enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under a variety of statutory authorities, including under the ffdca as well as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. in addition, any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance. we have created labeling, advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to describe specific surgical procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) indications for use stated in our 510(k) clearances. although we have relied on expert in-house and external staff, consultants and advisors, some of whom were formerly employed by fda and familiar with fda perspective, we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. from time to time we modify our products, including the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system, after we obtain 510(k) clearance from the fda for the devices in ways that we do not believe require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. if the fda disagrees with our assessments that a new 510(k) clearance was not required prior to commercializing the devices with these changes or modifications, then the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. we have a wholly owned manufacturing facility located in mexicali, mexico which manufactures reusable and disposable surgical instruments. this facility is registered with the fda as well as mexican authorities. the facility is operated under u.s. and international quality system regulations including those applicable to canada, the european union, and japan among others. our wholly owned manufacturing facility in mexicali, mexico has an fda establishment registration but has not been inspected by the fda to date. if the fda were to identify non-conformances in our product documentation or quality system compliance, they could hold indefinitely the importation of instruments at the border which would deprive us of the ability to sell and supply the majority of our customers until the fda requirements have been satisfied. similar supply disruptions could occur if key suppliers outside of the u.s. were to encounter non-conformances with their documentation or quality system compliance. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to provide our products in foreign countries. to be able to provide our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries which may differ substantially from those of the united states. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or to obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. in particular, if the fda refuses to provide cfgs our ability to register products or renew such registrations may be delayed or denied. the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the authorization to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes and products meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and have maintained this authorization continuously since that time. from time to time we seek the authorization to affix the ce mark to new or modified products. subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our notified body, presafe. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we are subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark authorizations we have already obtained including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives. we cannot be certain we will be able to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu and many affiliated countries that accept the ce mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some member states of the european union have additional requirements for registration and notification which may add to the time and effort to obtain market access. in addition, the regulations applied to end users of our products may increase over time, forcing us to provide additional solutions to regulations which do not apply directly to us, but which apply indirectly as they may limit our customers' ability to use our products. to date, we received approvals from the japanese ministry of health, labor and welfare ( mhlw ) for our da vinci , si , and xi surgical systems and various associated instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci procedures. we may seek 30 table of contents additional approvals for other products and/or indications, however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, because not all of our instruments have received product approvals, and reimbursement is an additional process to generate market acceptance, it is possible that procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. to date, we have received reimbursement approval for prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy procedures in japan. there are multiple pathways to obtain reimbursement for procedures including those that require in-country clinical data and which are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. our capital sales in china are subject to importation authorizations and central purchasing tender processes. therefore, future system sales and our ability to grow future procedure volumes are dependent on the completion of these central purchasing tender authorizations, the most recent of which expired at the end of 2015. the timing and magnitude of these future authorizations, which may determine our system placements in future years, is not certain and we expect to continue to experience variability in the timing of capital sales in china. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or other manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, import/export of our products and/or recall some products which would result in significant product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the fda and other regulatory agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr and other regulatory requirements. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization ( iso ) quality system standards as well as european directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in the european union. in addition, many countries such as canada and japan have very specific additional regulatory requirements for quality assurance and manufacturing. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements, as well as iso or other regulatory standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we continue to be subject to fda and certain other inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. our sunnyvale, california facility is licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we have been subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services food and drug branch and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship some products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in 2012 the state of california announced suspension of routine inspections but this policy could be modified or inspections could be resumed for specific circumstances. in addition, both our sunnyvale, california and mexicali, mexico facilities are subject to periodic inspections by other regulatory bodies, including third party auditors on behalf of national regulatory authorities. compliance with multiple regulatory standards is complex, difficult and costly to maintain, and material deficiencies could result in significant limitations on our ability to manufacture, transport and sell our products in one or more countries. if hospitals and other surgery facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or other regulatory standards, they may be required to temporarily cease all or part of their da vinci utilization. our global customers are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. our customers are required to comply with applicable local and international regulations, including with respect to the reprocessing of da vinci instruments and accessories. hospitals may not follow cleaning and sterilization instructions properly, or equipment used for cleaning and sterilization may malfunction or be used improperly. if our customers deviate from cleaning and sterilization instructions, regulatory authorities may require them to suspend use of da vinci surgical systems. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to fully protect and successfully defend our intellectual property from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. significant competitors have emerged and in medical robotics. our commercial success depends in part on obtaining patent protection for the proprietary technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents against infringing products and/or services in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent oppositions, reviews, or reexaminations. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our patent rights. we do not know whether we will be successful in obtaining the desired patent protection for our new proprietary technologies, or that the protection we do obtain 31 table of contents will be found valid and enforceable when challenged. the success of defending our proprietary rights can be highly uncertain because it involves complex and often evolving legal issues and procedures that are dependent on particular facts of each case. in addition to patents, we also rely on other intellectual property rights such as trade secret, copyright and trademark laws to protect proprietary technologies. we further utilize nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions as well as technical measures to protect our proprietary technologies. nevertheless, these measures may be inadequate in protecting our technologies. if these measures are proved to be inadequate in protecting our technologies, our competitive advantages may be reduced. moreover, we may not have adequate remedies for potential breaches by employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our proprietary technologies against their agreements with us regarding intellectual property. as a result, our trade secrets may be lost. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technologies without infringing any of our intellectual property which would harm our ability to compete in the market. as foreign markets become more significant in revenue for us, our foreign operations and strategic alliances with foreign entities will likely increase. our exposure to risks associated with these operations requires us to increase our reliance on protecting our intellectual property against infringing products and/or services in markets outside the united states. the laws and judicial systems in these countries may introduce yet another level of uncertainty to our effort to obtain the desired protection as well as defending our rights. others may be successful in asserting that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to pay substantial damages and/or enjoin us from commercializing our products. as we continue to introduce and commercialize new products and technologies, there may be u.s. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our products. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot be certain that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition, other parties may have filed or will file patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot be certain that patents issuing from our own patent application covering our products will have a priority date over any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party. the medical device industry has experienced extensive intellectual property litigation and administrative proceedings. if third parties assert infringement claims or institute administrative proceedings against us, our technical and management personnel will need to spend time and effort and we will incur large expenses in defending these attacks. we cannot be certain that we will prevail in infringement, invalidity or unenforceability claims against us. if plaintiffs in patent administrative proceedings are successful, our patent portfolio may be adversely affected. if plaintiffs in any patent action are successful, we may be enjoined from selling our products, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, or we may be required to obtain a license that requires us to pay substantial royalties. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with several industry partners. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts' or investors' expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products achieve and maintain market acceptance; 32 table of contents actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock and the value of your investment will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and may fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2013, the nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $583.67 and a low of $355.93, during fiscal 2014, it reached a high of $540.63 and a low of $352.35, during fiscal 2015, it reached a high of $557.20 and a low of $454.86, and during fiscal 2016, it reached a high of $724.83 and a low of $507.28 . our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals and enforcement actions; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; litigation; and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past, especially recently. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including us, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. consolidated cash flow data years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 1,042.9 $ 771.9 $ 665.1 investing activities (1,279.4 ) (849.5 ) (153.9 ) financing activities 558.5 193.4 (692.4 ) effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (1.5 ) (0.6 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 322.0 $ 114.3 $ (181.8 ) operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , cash provided by our operating activities of $1,042.9 million exceeded our net income of $735.9 million primarily due certain to non-cash charges as outlined below: 1. our net income included non-cash charges including in the form of share-based compensation of $ 177.6 million ; depreciation and loss of disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $ 73.9 million ; investment related non-cash charges of $ 35.9 million ; deferred income tax of $18.7 million ; amortization of intangible assets of $ 18.2 million ; partly offset by tax benefits from employee stock plans of $14.3 million . 2. the non-cash charges outlined above were partly offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in $3.0 million of cash used by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2016. operating assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses, deferred revenue, and other accrued liabilities. inventory, including the transfer of equipment from inventory to property, plant and equipment, increased by $46.7 million . accounts receivable increased $35.9 million primarily driven by higher revenue and timing of collections. prepaids and other assets increased $28.7 million primarily driven by higher lease receivable balances resulting from sales-type lease arrangement transactions entered into during year ended december 31, 2016. the unfavorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by a $53.8 million increase in other liabilities, primarily due to higher income tax payable, a $19.9 million increase in deferred revenue, an $18.7 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits, and a $15.9 million increase in accounts payable. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service revenue that is being recognized as revenue over the service contract period, increased primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts existed. for the year ended december 31, 2015, cash provided by our operating activities of $771.9 million exceeded our net income of $588.8 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included non-cash charges primarily in the form of share-based compensation of $167.9 million, depreciation and loss of disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $65.1 million, income tax benefits from employee 50 table of contents stock plans of $21.5 million, amortization of intangible assets of $24.4 million, and accretion of discounts and amortization of premiums on investments of $26.4 million. 2. the non-cash charges outlined above were partly offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in $92.5 million of cash used by operating activities. operating assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue, other accrued liabilities, and prepaid expenses. accounts receivable increased $79.2 million in 2015 reflecting higher sales in 2015 and timing of sales and collections. prepaids and other assets increased $10.5 million primarily driven by higher lease receivable balances resulting from sales-type lease arrangements entered into in 2015. accrued liabilities decreased by $10.5 million mainly due to settlement payments made related to accrued product liability litigation. other changes in operating assets and liabilities include an inventory increase of $10.7 million, net of equipment transfers from inventory to property, plant and equipment, and a decrease in accounts payable of $11.3 million also resulted in cash used by operating activities. the unfavorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by a $21.5 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits and an $8.2 million increase of deferred revenue. for the year ended december 31, 2014, cash flow from operations of $665.1 million exceeded our net income of $418.8 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included substantial non-cash charges primarily in the form of share-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes, and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $232.1 million during the year ended december 31, 2014. 2. changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in approximately $14.2 million in cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2014. accrued liabilities increased $63.4 million, mainly driven by an increase in product liability accruals. deferred revenue increased by $19.8 million in 2014 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts existed. also, accrued compensation and accounts payable increased $39.1 million. the favorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $13.7 million in 2014 reflecting timing of our system sales and related collections, a net increase in inventory of $26.8 million primarily due to expanded product offerings, and an increase in prepaids and other assets of $67.6 million, primarily driven by timing of tax payments and an increase in lease receivables relating to sales-type lease arrangements entered into during 2014. investing activities net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , consisted of purchases of investments (net of the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments) of $1.2 billion and purchases of property, plant and equipment $53.9 million. net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015, consisted of purchases of investments (net of the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments) of $768.5 million and purchases of property and equipment $81.0 million. net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2014, consisted primarily of cash used for purchases of property and equipment of $105.6 million and purchases of businesses of $84.3 million, partially offset by the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments (net of purchases of investments) of $36.0 million. purchases of property included the acquisition of approximately 15 acres of land in sunnyvale, california for future expansion in 2014. for the year ended december 31, 2014, we acquired certain intellectual property, know-how, fixed assets, and employees from luna innovations, inc. and we reacquired the distribution rights from our former japanese distributor, adachi co, ltd. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s. treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and/or tax exempt municipal notes, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, cash deposits, and money market funds. financing activities net cash provided by financing activities in 2016 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $ 580.9 million and excess tax benefits of $ 44.1 million , partly offset by $ 42.5 million used for the repurchase of 0.1 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlement of vested employee equity awards of $ 24.0 million . net cash provided by financing activities in 2015 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $361.1 million and excess tax benefits of $34.3 million, partly offset by $183.7 million used for the repurchase of 0.4 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlement of vested employee equity awards of $11.0 million. 51 table of contents net cash used in financing activities in 2014 consisted primarily of $1.0 billion used for the repurchase of 2.5 million shares of our common stock through an accelerated share repurchase program, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $283.6 million and excess tax benefits of $24.0 million. our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products. we have made substantial investments in our commercial operations, product development activities, facilities, and intellectual property. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements beyond one year and for the foreseeable future. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2016 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years operating leases $ 36.7 $ 7.1 $ 9.2 $ 5.4 $ 15.0 purchase commitments and obligations 345.8 342.7 3.1 total contractual obligations $ 382.5 $ 349.8 $ 12.3 $ 5.4 $ 15.0 operating leases. we lease spaces for operations in the u.s. as well as in japan, south korea, mexico, and other foreign countries. we also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our non-cancellable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and development arrangements. payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and have not been included in the table above. other commitments. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2016 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ), which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries and government agencies, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper, and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds. the securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weighted-average maturity of our investments as of december 31, 2016 , was approximately 1.1 years . if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $12.5 million as of december 31, 2016 . we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. the uncertain financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we sell in euros and british pounds in those european markets where we have direct distribution channels, as well as in japanese yen, and in korean won. we operate in a number of markets on a direct sales basis and incur operating expenses in local currencies in europe, japan, and south korea. we also purchase certain product components from non-u.s. suppliers in local currency. as a result, because a portion of our operations consist of sales activities outside of the u.s., we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s. dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and foreign currency bank balances. for the year ended december 31, 2016 , sales denominated in foreign currencies (euro, british pound, japanese yen, and korean won) were approximately 19% of total revenue. the objective of our hedging program is to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. for the year ended december 31, 2016 , our revenue would have decreased by approximately $25.2 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate strengthened by 10%. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies to which we have exposure, after considering foreign currency hedges and offsetting positions as of december 31, 2016 , would have resulted in a less than $0.5 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. to mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. we monitor ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust our exposure to various counterparties. although we sell to distributors outside of the u.s. in u.s. dollars, strengthening of the dollar can impact our distributors' margins and could impact the end customers' ability to purchase our product if our distributors seek to recover the impact of the change in the dollar by increasing product and service prices. less than 10% of our revenue is conducted through distributors outside the u.s. strengthening of the dollar relative to non-u.s. currencies could have an adverse impact on our business. our operations outside of the u.s. are subject to risks typical of operations outside of the u.s., including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors. our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business in this report, intuitive surgical, intuitive, the company, we, us, and our refer to intuitive surgical, inc. and its wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries. intuitive , intuitive surgical , da vinci , da vinci , da vinci hd surgical system , da vinci si , da vinci si hd surgical system , da vinci xi , da vinci sp , endowrist , firefly , insite , da vinci connect , intuitive surgical ecosystem , and da vinci x are trademarks of intuitive surgical, inc. company background intuitive designs, manufactures, and markets da vinci surgical systems and related instruments and accessories, which taken together, are advanced surgical systems that we consider an advanced generation of surgery. this advanced generation of surgery, which we call da vinci surgery, combines the benefits of minimally invasive surgery ( mis ) for patients with the ease of use, precision and dexterity of open surgery. a da vinci surgical system consists of a surgeon's console, a patient-side cart, and a high performance vision system. the da vinci surgical system translates a surgeon's natural hand movements, which are performed on instrument controls at a console, into corresponding micro-movements of instruments positioned inside the patient through small incisions, or ports. the da vinci surgical system is designed to provide its operating surgeons with intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability, and three dimensional ( 3-d ) high-definition ( hd ) vision while simultaneously allowing surgeons to work through the small ports enabled by mis procedures. da vinci surgery da vinci surgery utilizes computational, robotic, and imaging technologies to enable improved patient outcomes compared to other surgical and non-surgical therapies. da vinci surgery is aimed towards advancing the critical surgical ideals of entering the body less invasively, seeing anatomy more clearly, interacting with tissue more precisely, and building surgical skills. the da vinci surgical system enables surgeons to avail or improve the benefits of mis to many patients who would otherwise undergo a more invasive surgery. surgeons using the da vinci system operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a 3-d, hd image of the surgical field. this immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. while seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the more intuitive open surgery technique. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hand. in designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy and safe to use. our systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons: immersive 3-d visualization. our vision system includes a 3-d endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. the da vinci surgical system provides visualization of target anatomy with natural depth-of-field, enhanced contrast, and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. with our firefly fluorescence imaging technology, surgeons can use our specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts beneath tissue surfaces in real-time. precise and tremor-free endoscope control. our imaging system also incorporates our proprietary navigator camera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom, and rotate his or her field of vision. surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left and right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image. endowrist instruments. our instruments are modeled after the human wrist, offering a greater range of motion than the human hand. most of our proprietary instruments, which we call endowrist instruments, incorporate wrist joints that enable surgeons to reach behind tissues and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery. intuitive instrument movements. our technology is designed to transform the surgeon's natural hand movements outside the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient's body. for example, with the da vinci surgical system, a hand movement to the right outside the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. in contrast, conventional mis instruments are long rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. in conventional mis, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon's hand and surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to translate their hand movements in that environment. scaled, tremor filtered instrument movement. with our technology, a surgeon can also use motion scaling, a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient's body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient's body. motion scaling is designed to allow precision and control for delicate tasks. in addition, our technology filters the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hands. 4 table of contents improved surgeon ergonomics. the da vinci surgical system is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. the da vinci surgical system's design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon's console. because the da vinci surgical system's robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue. multi-specialty surgical platform. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures, within our targeted gynecologic, urologic, general surgery, cardiothoracic, and head and neck specialties. to date, surgeons have used the da vinci surgical system to perform dozens of different types of surgical procedures. while we do not expect all of these different types of procedures to become widely adopted, they demonstrate the flexibility of the da vinci surgical system in approaching anatomy. advanced training tools. surgeons can efficiently train and improve their da vinci surgery skills with a group of tools unique to robotic surgery, including our da vinci skills simulator for software based skills practice and assessment, our da vinci dual console for inter-operative collaboration, and our da vinci connect networking technology for on-line proctoring. products da vinci surgical systems we have commercialized the following four generational platforms of da vinci surgical systems: our fourth generation da vinci x and da vinci xi surgical systems, our third generation da vinci si surgical system, our second generation da vinci surgical system, and our first generation da vinci standard surgical system. da vinci surgical systems are comprised of the following components: surgeon's console . the da vinci surgical system allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic console viewing a 3-d image of the surgical field. the surgeon's fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with the surgeon's hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. using electronic hardware, software, algorithms, and mechanics, our technology translates the surgeon's hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of the endowrist instruments positioned inside the patient. on our most current systems, da vinci x, da vinci xi, and da vinci si , a second surgeon's console may be used in two possible ways: to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or to act as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. with da vinci x, da vinci xi, and da vinci si , a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of the da vinci instruments during the surgery. in addition, surgeons can control 3-d virtual pointers to augment the dual surgeon experience. patient-side cart . the patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the patient. up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned as appropriate, and then locked into place. at least two arms hold our endowrist instruments, one representing the surgeon's left hand and one representing the surgeon's right hand. a third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom, and rotate his or her field of vision. a fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a third endowrist instrument to perform additional tasks. the fourth instrument arm is a standard integrated feature on da vinci x, xi, and si surgical systems, and is available as an upgrade on three-arm si-e surgical system. 3-d vision system. our vision system includes our insite 3-d endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. the resulting 3-d image has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker, and low cross fading. a digital zoom feature in the 3-d, hd vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and thereby reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. the 3-d, hd vision is a standard integrated feature on da vinci x, xi, si, and surgical systems. da vinci skills simulator . the skills simulator is a practice tool that gives a user the opportunity to practice his or her facility with the surgeon console controls. the skills simulator incorporates 3-d, physics-based computer simulation technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment. the user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. upon completion of a skills exercise, the skills simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. the skills simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for the da vinci x, xi, and si surgical systems. most da vinci skills simulators have been sold in connection with our da vinci x, xi, and si surgical systems. da vinci xi integrated table motion . integrated table motion coordinates the movements of the da vinci robot arms with an advanced operating room table, the trusystem 7000dv sold by trumpf medical tm , to enable shifting a patient's position in real-time while the da vinci surgical robotic arms remain docked. this gives operating room teams the capabilities to optimally position the operating table so that gravity exposes anatomy during multi-quadrant da vinci system procedures, maximize reach and access to target anatomy enabling surgeons to interact with tissue at an ideal working angle, and reposition the table during the procedure to enhance anesthesiologists' care of the patient. 5 table of contents firefly fluorescence imaging . firefly is a standard feature of the da vinci x and xi surgical system and available on our da vinci si surgical system. this imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da vinci camera head, endoscope and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy. firefly is generally used across the categories of urology, gynecology, and general surgery. instruments and accessories endowrist instruments . we manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate wrist joints for natural dexterity, with tips customized for various surgical procedures. endowrist instruments are offered in a variety of sizes, of which 5mm and 8mm diameter sizes are the most commonly sold. at their tips, the various endowrist instruments include forceps, scissors, electrocautery, scalpels, and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon from open surgery and conventional mis. a variety of endowrist instruments may be selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. our endowrist instruments are sterilizable at the hospital or provided sterile, and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. a programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the da vinci system and instruments work together. in addition, the chip will generally not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. da vinci single-site. da vinci single-site is a set of non-wristed and wristed instruments and accessories that allow da vinci surgical systems to work through a single incision, typically in the umbilicus, rather than multiple incisions. single incision surgery is intended to minimize trauma to patients by reducing the number of ports required to enter the body and is typically utilized for less complex surgery than multi-port surgery. endowrist one vessel sealer . the endowrist one vessel sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. this instrument enables surgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of da vinci surgery. this instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures. endowrist stapler . the endowrist stapler is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection, and/or creation of anastomoses. this instrument enables operators to precisely position and fire the stapler. we market two types of staplers: the endowrist stapler 45 and 30 where the numeric designation indicates the length of the staple line. the endowrist stapler 45 is used in general, gynecologic, and urologic surgery. the endowrist stapler 30, available with the da vinci x and xi surgical system, is intended to deliver particular utility with fine tissue interaction in lobectomy and other thoracic procedures. accessory products . we sell various accessory products which are used in conjunction with the da vinci surgical system as surgical procedures are performed. accessory products include sterile drapes used to help ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products such as replacement 3-d stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other items that facilitate use of the da vinci surgical system. business strategy our goal is to fundamentally improve surgery and maximize the number of patients who can derive the benefits of mis. through the use of computer-aided robotic technologies our objective is to create value for patients, surgeons, and hospitals as summarized below: patient value. we believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as: patient value = procedure efficacy/invasiveness . we define procedure efficacy as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness as how disruptive and painful the treatment is itself. when the patient value of a da vinci procedure is deemed higher than alternate treatment options, patients may seek out surgeons and hospitals that offer that specific da vinci procedure, potentially resulting in a local market share shift for the specific treatment. da vinci procedure adoption occurs procedure by procedure, and is driven by the relative patient value and total treatment costs of da vinci procedures compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state. we believe most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. our goal is to provide products to surgeons who in turn provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options. surgeon value. we train surgeons on the use of our da vinci surgical system and assist them in building their practices by their delivery of high patient value. we provide an ergonomic platform for surgeons to perform their procedures. we seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy to use products. hospital value. we assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value using da vinci products, thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced length of patient stay. we believe da 6 table of contents vinci surgery is a cost effective approach to many surgeries as compared to alternative treatment options, as recognized in many published studies. clinical applications we are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and applications for da vinci surgery an important part of our creative process. we primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value, surgeon value, and hospital value. we currently focus on five surgical specialties: gynecologic surgery, urologic surgery, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. key procedures which we are focused on include da vinci prostatectomy ( dvp ), da vinci hysterectomy ( dvh ), hernia repair, da vinci colon and rectal procedures, da vinci partial nephrectomy, da vinci sacrocolpopexy, da vinci mitral valve repair, da vinci lobectomy, and da vinci transoral robotic surgery. representative surgical applications are described below. gynecologic surgery hysterectomy. removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and is performed for a variety of underlying benign and cancerous conditions. hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy), or mis techniques, which include vaginal, laparoscopic, and robotic approaches. prior to the clearance of da vinci surgery for use in gynecological procedures in 2005, the majority of hysterectomies performed were open surgeries. we believe that da vinci surgery provides a large number of women the opportunity to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an alternative to an open hysterectomy. hysterectomies for benign conditions can be performed using either multi-port or single-site technology and we estimate that a majority of da vinci surgery is performed using multi-port techniques. single-site instruments enable surgeons to perform surgery through a single port via the patient's belly button, allowing for virtually scarless results. sacrocolpopexy. the abdominal (open) sacrocolpopexy is one of the most successful operations for vaginal vault prolapse. sacrocolpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). a sacrocolpopexy can be performed using a conventional laparoscopic technique; however, it is generally described as difficult and cumbersome to perform. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of sacrocolpopexy patients. urologic surgery prostatectomy. radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. the standard approach to removal of the prostate was via an open surgical procedure. the conventional laparoscopic approach is an option, but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. the da vinci surgical system has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique. partial nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor). partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. excluding da vinci surgery, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy, and hand assisted laparoscopy, which is a hybrid of the open and laparoscopic techniques. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients. treatment guidelines for patients with localized renal cancer recommend partial nephrectomy due to the benefits nephron-sparing surgery has in long-term patient outcomes. published clinical literature has shown that the presence of a da vinci surgical system is associated with a higher-proportion of patients receiving a guideline-recommended partial nephrectomy. general surgery hernia repair. a hernia occurs when an organ or other tissue squeezes through a weak spot in a surrounding muscle or connective tissue. during a hernia repair surgery, the weakened tissue is secured and defects are repaired. common types of hernia are ventral and inguinal. ventral, or abdominal hernia, may occur through a scar after surgery in the abdomen. inguinal hernia is a bulge in the groin and is more common in men. hernia repair can be performed using traditional open surgery or mis. there is a wide-range of complexity in hernia repair surgeries and varying surgeon opinion regarding optimal surgical approach. the benefits of minimally invasive and robotic hernia repair surgery vary by patient. colorectal surgery. these procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular the rectum or colon. common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection, and abdominoperineal resection. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system and our latest technologies, such as the da vinci xi surgical system, endowrist stapler , and endowrist vessel sealer, have enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients. cholecystectomy. cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of the gall bladder, is a commonly performed general surgery procedure. cholecystectomy is the primary method for the treatment of gallstones and other gall bladder diseases. most cholecystectomies are performed using multi-port mis techniques, although some surgeons choose to perform cholecystectomy using manual single-port instrumentation. using da vinci single-site instruments, many of the technical challenges of manual single-port mis are reduced as surgeons benefit from additional precision, control, and improved ergonomics. multi-port da vinci techniques are also being used for certain cases, and firefly technology can be used to visualize biliary anatomy in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces during single-site and multi-port da vinci cholecystectomies. bariatric surgery . a body of literature points to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its secondary effects, such as diabetes. sleeve gastrectomy and roux-en-y gastric bypass ( rygb ) are commonly performed surgical procedures for morbid obesity in the u.s. the body habitus of morbidly obese patients can make laparoscopic surgery physically challenging for the surgeon, and certain surgeons have found value in using the da vinci surgical system to improve upon the ergonomics when performing mis in morbidly obese patients. in addition, rygb can be a technically challenging procedure because of the suturing, stapling, and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. surgeons using the da vinci surgical system have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to laparoscopic rygb. cardiothoracic surgery thoracic surgery. conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision, and esophagectomy. many thoracic procedures remain open procedures. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients and improved clinical outcomes compared to open and video- 7 table of contents assisted thoracic surgery in published single-center, multi-center and national database clinical studies. we believe the endowrist stapler 30 may have particular utility in thoracic procedures. mitral valve repair. when patients are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are typically two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient's post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen. because mitral valve repairs are considered to be more technically challenging than mitral valve replacements, they are only performed approximately 50% of the time. several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when using the da vinci surgical system. head and neck surgery transoral surgery. head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation, or a combination of both. surgical resection performed by an open approach may require a jaw-splitting mandibulotomy. this procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is potentially traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. mis approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated by conventional endoscopic tools. chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions; however, literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients' ability to speak and swallow normally. surgeons have reported that da vinci transoral surgery allows them to operate on tumors occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line-of-sight limitations of conventional transoral surgery. procedure mix our procedure business is broadly split into two categories: (1) cancer and other highly complex procedures and (2) less complex procedures for benign conditions. cancer and other highly complex procedures tend to be reimbursed at higher rates than less complex procedures for benign conditions. thus, hospitals are more sensitive to the costs associated with treating less complex benign conditions. our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economic solutions in each of these categories. our fully featured da vinci xi system with advanced instruments including the endowrist one vessel sealer, endowrist stapler products, and our table motion product target the more complex procedure segment. lower priced products, including the three-arm da vinci si-e system, refurbished da vinci si , and lower priced single-site instruments are targeted towards less complex procedures. our da vinci x surgical system is priced between the da vinci si and xi surgical systems and offers customers access to many of the da vinci xi features, including da vinci xi advanced instrumentation and imaging systems, at a lower price point. clinical summary we believe there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the da vinci surgical system and we work closely with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in which da vinci may bring value. as of december 31, 2017 , we had an installed base of 4,409 da vinci surgical systems, including 2,862 in the u.s., 742 in europe, 579 in asia, and 226 in the rest of the world. we estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 877,000 surgical procedures of various types in hospitals throughout the world during the year ended december 31, 2017 . sales and customer support sales model we provide our products through direct sales organizations in the u.s., japan, south korea, and europe, excluding spain, portugal, italy, greece, and eastern european countries. in the remainder of our markets outside of the u.s. ( ous ), we provide our products through distributors. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 . during the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , domestic revenue accounted for 73% , 72% , and 71% , respectively, of total revenue, while revenue from our ous markets accounted for 27% , 28% , and 29% , respectively. as of december 31, 2017 , and 2016 , 88% and 86% of all long-lived assets were in the u.s., respectively. our direct sales organization is composed of a capital sales team, responsible for selling da vinci surgical systems, and a clinical sales team, responsible for supporting da vinci surgical system use in surgical procedures performed at our hospital accounts. our hospital accounts include both individual hospitals and health care facilities and hospitals and health care facilities that are part of an integrated delivery network ( idn groups ). the initial da vinci surgical system sale into an account as a major capital equipment purchase by our customers typically has a lengthy sales cycle that can be affected by macroeconomic factors, capital spending prioritization, timing of budgeting cycles, and competitive bidding processes. capital sales activities include educating surgeons and hospital staff across multiple surgical specialties on the benefits of da vinci surgery, total treatment costs, and the clinical applications that our technology enables. we also train our sales organization to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including clinical benefits of da vinci surgery, potential reductions in complications and length of stay, and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction, surgeon recruitment, and procedure volume. 8 table of contents our clinical sales team works on site at hospitals, interacting with surgeons, operating room staff, and hospital administrators to develop and sustain successful robotic surgery programs. they assist the hospital in identifying surgeons who have an interest in robotic surgery and the potential benefits provided by the da vinci surgical system. our clinical sales team provides the current clinical information on robotic surgery practices and new product applications to the hospital teams and has grown with the expanded installed base of da vinci surgical systems and the total number of procedures performed. we expect this organization to continue to grow as our business expands. our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. orders received are typically shipped within one business day. new direct customers who purchase a new da vinci surgical system typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories soon after they receive their system. our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first fiscal quarter and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. in addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. procedures treating benign conditions are typically higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter. the timing of procedures and changes in procedure volume impact the timing of instrument and accessory and capital purchases. customer support and training programs we have a network of field service engineers across the u.s., europe, and asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. this infrastructure of service and support specialists offers a full complement of services for our customers, including 24/7 support, installation, repair, and maintenance. we generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs. we provide basic system training that teaches the fundamental operating principles of the da vinci surgical system to surgeons, surgical assistants, and operating room nurses. we have established training centers where initial system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. surgeons may also practice their robotic surgery technique using our da vinci skills simulator. in addition, we help facilitate the proctoring of surgeons who are new to da vinci surgery by experienced da vinci surgical system users. proctors provide training to other surgeons on how to perform certain surgical procedures with da vinci surgical systems. 9 table of contents research and development we focus our research and development efforts on innovating products and product improvements that align with our mission to provide more effective, less invasive, and easier care options for physicians, patients and their families. we employ research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. we invested $328.6 million , $239.6 million , and $197.4 million of research and development expenses for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. we establish strategic alliances with other medical device and technology based companies to complement our research and development effort. to date, these alliances have taken several forms, including cooperation in the areas of product development, training, procedure development, and marketing activities. we have formed alliances with several companies, including, but not limited to, 3d systems, inc., erbe elektromedizin gmbh, intouch technology inc., johnson &amp; johnson, justright surgical, llc, mimic technologies, inc., novadaq technologies, inc., olympus corporation, schoelly fiberoptic gmbh, and trumpf medical (a division of hill-rom holdings, inc.). in 2017, our majority-owned joint venture with shanghai fosun pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. ( fosun pharma ), a subsidiary of fosun international limited, was legally formed. the joint venture was formed to research, develop, manufacture, and sell robotic-assisted catheter-based medical devices. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis for further details on the joint venture with fosun pharma. manufacturing we manufacture our da vinci surgical systems at our facility in sunnyvale, california. we manufacture our instruments at our sunnyvale and mexicali, mexico facilities. we purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). we purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods. competition we face competition in the forms of existing open surgery, conventional mis, drug therapies, radiation treatment, and emerging interventional surgical approaches. our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability as well as educating hospitals, surgeons, and patients on the demonstrated results associated with da vinci surgery and its value relative to other techniques. we also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the mis market. we believe that many companies are focused on adding capability to manual mis systems. because many of these developments are aimed at mis, we believe that our da vinci surgical systems may prove complementary to some of these new technologies. moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g. single-site , endowrist stapler, and endowrist one vessel sealer) that compete with product offerings traditionally within the domains of open surgery and/or conventional mis, we face greater competition from larger and well established companies such as ethicon endo-surgery, inc. and medtronic plc. furthermore, a number of companies have introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit their intention to enter the field of robotic surgery, including: auris surgical robotics, inc.; avatera medical gmbh; cambridge medical robotics ltd; johnson &amp; johnson and google inc. and their joint venture, verb surgical inc.; medicaroid inc.; medrobotics corp.; medtronic plc; meerecompany inc.; olympus corp.; samsung corporation; smart robot technology group co. ltd.; titan medical inc.; and transenterix inc. other companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. in addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. our revenues may be adversely impacted as our competitors announce their intent to enter our markets and as our customers anticipate the availability of competing products. intellectual property we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright, and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes. we generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. for example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. we also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own large and robust patent portfolio. as of december 31, 2017 , we held ownership or exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 2,750 u.s. and foreign patents and more than 1,900 u.s. and foreign patent applications. we intend to continue filing new patent applications in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology. 10 table of contents patents are granted for finite terms. upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a patent enter the public domain. government regulation our products and operations are subject to regulation by the fda, the state of california, and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use, and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate our compliance into the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to meet these standards could limit our ability to market our products in those regions which require compliance to such standards. examples of standards to which we are subject include electrical safety standards such as those of the international electrotechnical commission (e.g. iec 60601-ss series of standards), and composition standards such as the reduction of hazardous substances ( rohs ) and the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directives. united states the fda regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing, distribution, and service of medical devices in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in addition, the fda regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the u.s. to markets outside of the u.s. and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad. under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act ( ffdca ), medical devices are classified into one of three classes class i, class ii or class iii depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. our current products are class i and class ii medical devices. class ii devices are those which are subject to general controls and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the fda, and clearance by the fda. premarket review and clearance by the fda for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process. unless a class ii device is exempt from premarket review, the manufacturer must submit to the fda a premarket notification submission demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent in intended use and technology to a predicate device that is either: a device that has grandfather marketing status because it was legally marketed prior to may 28, 1976, the date upon which the medical device amendments of 1976 were enacted; or a device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process. if the fda agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the u.s. the fda has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission, or a guidance-based 30-day period for special 510(k) submissions which have a more restrictive scope and generally involve more specific or very limited changes to a legally marketed device. as a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. the fda may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. if the fda determines that the device, or its intended use, is not substantially equivalent, the fda may deny the request for clearance. although unlikely for the types of products marketed by us, the fda may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into class iii, and the device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-market approval ( pma ) requirements. a pma application, which is intended to demonstrate that a device is safe and effective, must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. the fda, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review a pma application, though the review more often occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. in approving a pma application or clearing a 510(k) submission, the fda may also require some form of post-market surveillance when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. in such cases, the manufacturer might be required to follow certain patient groups for a number of years and makes periodic reports to the fda on the clinical status of those patients. after a device receives fda 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pma application approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make the determination of whether a modification requires a new 510(k) notification or pma application in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer's decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or pma approval for a particular change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease u.s. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. in addition, after a device is placed on the market, numerous fda and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. these include establishment registration and device listing with the fda; compliance with medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may present a risk to health. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the u.s. have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the fda's good manufacturing practice ( gmp ) requirements contained in its quality system regulation ( qsr ) and associated regulations and guidance. the qsr covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with fda regulation, the manufacturer's own procedures, specifications, and testing as well as distribution and post-market experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the u.s. a company's facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the fda, which may issue reports known as forms fda 483 or notices of inspectional observations which list instances where the fda inspector believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if the observations are sufficiently serious or the manufacturer fails to respond appropriately, the fda may issue warning letters, or untitled letters, which are notices of potential enforcement actions against the manufacturer. if a warning letter or untitled letter is not addressed to the satisfaction of the fda, or if the fda becomes aware of any other serious issue with a manufacturer's products or facilities, it could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the u.s., and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. in the u.s., routine fda inspections usually occur every two years, and may occur more often for cause. 11 table of contents to a greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include periodic inspections, inspections by third party auditors, and specialized documentation. failure to meet all the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support, and receive reimbursement for the use of our products in these countries. in addition to the above, we may seek to conduct clinical studies or trials in the u.s. or other countries on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for a particular indication. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation, and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such investigational use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board ( irb ). failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject the company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement, or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot provide assurance that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. products manufactured outside the u.s. by or for us are subject to u.s. customs and fda inspection upon entry into the u.s. we must demonstrate compliance of such products to u.s. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays. california regulation the state of california requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and until 2012 conducted periodic inspections of medical device manufacturers. our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in july 2011 and were found to be in compliance. in accordance with the state of california regulations, our license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information. although the state of california has announced suspension of routine periodic inspections, there can be no assurance the state of california will not resume such inspections or conduct such inspections under specific circumstances which are not yet known. foreign regulation in order for us to market our products in countries outside the united states, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations in other countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. some countries have regulatory review processes which are substantially longer than u.s. processes. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive regulatory approval. we obtained from the japanese ministry of health, labor, and welfare ( mhlw ) approval for our da vinci si surgical systems in october 2012 and approval for our da vinci xi surgical systems in march 2015. national reimbursement status was received in japan for dvp procedures, effective april 2012 and for da vinci partial nephrectomy procedures in april 2016. we are currently seeking reimbursement for additional procedures through the mhlw's senshin iryo processes as well as alternative reimbursement processes. our senshin iryo approvals require in-country clinical data and are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years. commercialization of medical devices in europe is regulated by the european union ( eu ). the eu presently requires that all medical products bear the conformit europ enne ( ce ) mark, for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and performance mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu and those affiliated countries which accept the ce mark. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to affix the ce mark on products, a recognized european notified body must certify a manufacturer's quality system and design dossier for compliance with international and european requirements. we have received authorization from presafe denmark a/s (formerly dgm denmark a/s), a recognized european notified body and part of nemko presafe a/s, to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and accessories. to maintain authorization to apply the ce mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. in september 2013, the european commission adopted a recommendation indicating that all notified bodies, including presafe, should carry out unannounced audits, at least once every third year, of the manufacturers whose medical devices they have certified. these unannounced audits can also extend to the manufacturer's critical suppliers or sub-contractors (those that supply a critical input or perform a critical function for the manufacturer). 12 table of contents if we modify our existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu or those whose marketing authorizations are based on the ce mark. in april 2017, the medical device regulation was adopted to replace the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the medical device regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants notified bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification, or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. certain countries, such as china and south korea, have their own regulatory agencies. these countries typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. our system sales into china are also dependent on obtaining importation authorizations and hospitals completing a central purchasing tender process under the authorization, the most recent of which expired at the end of 2015. in addition, local regulations may apply which govern the use of our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. all such regulations are revised from time to time and in general are increasing in complexity, and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing required. there can be no assurance the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. there are further regulations governing the importation, marketing, sale, distribution, use, and service as well as the removal and disposal of medical devices in the regions in which we operate and market our products. failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions or fines, and could prevent us from marketing our products in these regions. other healthcare laws we are also subject to federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency, privacy, and security laws and regulations. these laws include: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the medicare and medicaid programs. a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal anti-kickback statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims act; federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary's decision to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier; federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; the federal physician payment sunshine act, which requires (i) manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under medicare, medicaid, or the children's health insurance program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ) information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists, and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and (ii) applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to cms ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above 13 table of contents and their immediate family members, and payments or other transfers of value to such physician owners. manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year; and analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and pricing information; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. if our operations are found to violate any of the laws described above or any other laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from our participation in federal and state healthcare programs, and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to market our products and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. third-party coverage and reimbursement in the u.s. and most markets ous where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all covered surgical procedures. governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and physicians for surgery when the procedure is considered medically necessary. in the u.s., cms administers the medicare and medicaid programs (the latter, along with applicable state governments). many other third-party payors model their reimbursement methodologies after the medicare program. as the single largest payor, this program has a significant impact on other payors' payment systems. generally, reimbursement for professional services performed at a facility by physicians is reported under billing codes issued by the american medical association ( ama ), known as current procedural terminology ( cpt ) codes. physician reimbursement under medicare generally is based on a fee schedule and determined by the relative values of the professional service rendered. in addition, cms and the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to billing codes used by hospitals to report inpatient procedures, known as icd-9-cm procedural codes prior to october 1, 2015, and icd-10-pcs codes on and after october 1, 2015. for medicare, cms generally reimburses hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay based on a prospective payment system that is determined by a classification system known as medicare-severity diagnostic related groupings ( ms-drgs ). ms-drgs are assigned using a number of factors including the principal diagnosis, major procedures, discharged status, patient age, and complicating secondary diagnoses among 14 table of contents other things. hospital outpatient services, reported by cpt codes, are assigned to clinically relevant ambulatory payment classifications ( apcs ) used to determine the payment amount for services provided. on october 1, 2008, cms and nchs issued a new family of icd-9-cm procedure codes for robotically assisted procedures. the purpose of the icd-9-cm family of procedure codes, 17.4x, was to gather data on robotic assisted surgical procedures. since october 1, 2015, a new family of icd-10-pcs codes can be used-in conjunction with other applicable procedure codes-to describe various robotic assisted procedures. an inpatient surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the clinically relevant ms-drg. governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, contract terms, and other factors. because both hospitals and physicians may receive the same reimbursement for their respective services, with or without robotics, regardless of actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care, including for the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products. domestic institutions typically bill various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid, and other government programs and private insurance plans for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products. because our da vinci surgical system has been cleared for commercial distribution in the u.s. by the fda, coverage and reimbursement by payors are generally determined by the medical necessity of the primary surgical procedure. we believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies for appropriately selected patients. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. in countries outside the u.s., reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. in most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. in addition, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain european countries. to effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek ous reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. in some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such co-pay practices are not common in most countries. in the u.s., there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), was enacted. the ppaca made changes that have significantly impacted healthcare providers, insurers, and pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. the ppaca contained a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansion, including, but not limited to fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. for sales between january 1, 2013 and december 31, 2015, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% on certain u.s. medical device revenues. under this provision, we incurred medical device excise tax ( mdet ) of approximately $17.0 million in 2015 which was included as a cost of revenue and a reduction of product gross profit margin. the consolidated appropriations act, 2016 (the appropriations act ), enacted in december 2015, included a two-year moratorium on mdet such that medical device sales in 2016 and 2017 were exempt from the mdet. new legislation was passed in january 2018 such that mdet will be delayed until january 1, 2020. the ppaca also appropriated funding to research the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. it remains unclear how this research will influence future medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions, as well as influence other third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies. the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the taxes imposed by ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits, lower reimbursement from payors for procedures that use our products, and/or reduced procedural volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. these changes included an aggregate reduction in medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, enacted on april 16, 2015 ( macra ), repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. individual states in the u.s. have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing 15 table of contents regulations designed to control product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints and discounts, and require marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures. there have also been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ppaca, as well as efforts by the u.s. administration to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. since january 2017, the u.s. president has signed two executive orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the ppaca or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ppaca. the current u.s. administration has also announced that it will discontinue the payment of cost-sharing reduction ( csr ) payments to insurance companies until congress approves the appropriation of funds for the csr payments. the loss of the csr payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the ppaca. a bipartisan bill to appropriate funds for csr payments has been introduced in the senate, but the future of that bill is uncertain. in addition, cms has recently proposed regulations that would give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the ppaca for plans sold through such marketplaces. because of the tax cuts and jobs act enacted on december 22, 2017, the ppaca's individual mandate penalty for not having health insurance coverage will be eliminated starting in 2019. further, each chamber of congress has put forth multiple bills designed to repeal or repeal and replace portions of the ppaca. although the majority of these measures have not been enacted by congress to date, congress will likely continue to consider other legislation to repeal or repeal and replace elements of the ppaca. any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. employees as of december 31, 2017 , we had 4,444 employees, 597 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 1,868 in manufacturing and service, and 1,979 in marketing, sales, and administrative activities. none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. general we make our periodic and current reports, including our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, our code of business conduct and ethics policy and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com and the reports are filed under sec filings, on the company investor relations portion of our website. periodically, we webcast company announcements, product launch events, and executive presentations which can be viewed via our investor relations page on our website. in addition, we provide notifications of our material news including sec filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our investor relations page on our website. the contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. the public may read and copy any materials filed by the company with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov . the contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. further, references to the urls for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. we operate our business as one segment as defined by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. our financial results for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 are discussed in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this annual report. intuitive surgical, inc. was founded in 1995. we are a delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1020 kifer road, sunnyvale, california 94086. our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com . item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient, and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery is crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians' and third-party payors' acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will 16 table of contents not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives and the evolving u.s. health care environment following the 2016 u.s. elections. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could materially adversely affect our company. uncertainty about global economic conditions, including credit and sovereign debt concerns in certain european countries and concerns about slowed economic growth in china and other ous markets, have caused and may continue to cause disruptions in the financial credit markets, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, and liquidity concerns. customers and distributors may choose to postpone or reduce spending due to financial difficulties or may be unable to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products due to restraints on credit. there could be additional effects from adverse conditions in the credit markets on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays. in addition, our business is closely tied to the overall u.s. healthcare system, relating to which there are concerns and uncertainties as a result of efforts made by the u.s. federal government to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. in addition, the u.s. federal government has called for, or enacted, substantial changes to trade, fiscal, and tax policies, which may include changes to existing trade agreements, including, but not limited to, the north american free trade agreement ("nafta"), and may have a significant impact on our operations. we cannot predict the impact, if any, that these changes could have on our business. if economic conditions worsen or new legislation is passed related to the healthcare system, trade, fiscal or tax policies, customer demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors' products or services or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, and pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than da vinci surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. additionally, we face or expect to face competition from companies that develop or have developed wristed, robotic, or computer-assisted surgical systems and products. the following companies have introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field: auris surgical robotics inc.; avatera medical gmbh; cambridge medical robotics ltd; johnson &amp; johnson and google inc. and their joint venture, verb surgical inc.; medicaroid inc.; medrobotics corp.; meerecompany inc.; medtronic plc; olympus corp.; samsung corporation; smart robot technology group co. ltd.; transenterix inc.; and titan medical inc. other companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become competitors. our revenues may be reduced due to pricing pressure or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. in addition, third-party service providers that provide services to da vinci surgical system operators may emerge and compete with us on price or offerings. to date, substantially all of our customers have sourced services on their da vinci surgical systems from us through service contract commitments or time and materials contracts. furthermore, there are third-party service providers 17 table of contents offering consulting services targeted at analyzing the cost-effectiveness of hospitals' robotic surgery programs, including procedures performed, placement of systems, and consumption of instruments and accessories. we currently provide similar services and analysis to our customers, but it is difficult to assess the impact that this may have on our business. if we are unable to compete successfully with any third-party service providers, our revenues may suffer. our customers may use unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. a large portion of our revenue is generated through our sales of instruments and accessories. third parties have attempted to and may discover ways to manufacture and sell counterfeit reprocessed instruments and/or alter instruments that are compatible and function with the da vinci surgical system, and such activities may reduce our market share. while our sales arrangements with customers generally prohibit the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories with da vinci surgical systems, warranties will be void if such instruments and accessories are used, and a programmed memory chip inside each instrument is designed to prevent the instrument from being used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure, these measures may not prevent the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories by our customers. in addition to potential reductions to our revenues and market share, sales of unauthorized instruments and accessories by third parties may create safety and health risks to da vinci patients and could cause negative publicity for us if these products cause injuries and/or do not function as intended when used with the da vinci surgical systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. new product developments and introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we develop and introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. we may introduce new products that target different markets than what our existing products target. the success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, timely and successful research and development, regulatory clearances or approvals, pricing, competition, market and consumer acceptance, the effective forecasting and management of product demand, inventory levels, the management of manufacturing and supply costs, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. we invest substantially in various research and development projects to expand our product offerings. our research and development efforts are critical to our success, and our research and development projects may not be successful. we may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products we invest in and develop may not be well-received by customers or meet our expectations. our research and development investments may not generate significant operating income or contribute to our future operating results for several years, and such contributions may not meet our expectations or even cover the costs of such investments. in addition, the introduction or announcement of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products or reduce demand for our current products, thereby offsetting any benefits of successful product introductions and potentially leading to challenges in managing inventory of existing products. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory clearance, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. we have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products in advance of new product introductions and may experience a slowdown in demand in the future as well. it is also possible that a new product introduction could cause downward pressure on the prices of our existing products or require us to change how we sell our products, either of which could have material adverse effect on our revenues. if we fail to effectively develop new products and manage new product introductions in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. we expect gross profit margins to vary over time, and changes in our gross profit margins could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our gross profit margins have fluctuated from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. our gross profit margins may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of da vinci surgical system models sold; changes in the portion of sales involving a trade-in of another system and the amount of trade-in credits given; introduction of new products, which may have lower margins than our existing products; our ability to maintain or reduce production costs; changes to our pricing strategy; 18 table of contents changes in competition; changes in production volume driven by demand for our products; changes in material, labor, or other manufacturing-related costs, including the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations for foreign-currency denominated costs; changes to u.s. and foreign trade policies, including the enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the u.s., including but not limited to, goods imported from mexico where we manufacture a majority of our instruments that we sell; inventory obsolescence and product recall charges; and market conditions. if we are unable to offset the unfavorable impact of the factors noted above by increasing the volume of products shipped, reducing product manufacturing costs, or otherwise, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. we experience long and variable capital sales cycles and seasonality in our business, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results. the sales and purchase order cycle of our da vinci surgical system is lengthy because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable. in addition, sales to some of our customers are subject to competitive bidding or public tender processes. these approval and bidding processes can be lengthy. as a result, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines. further, idn groups are creating larger networks of da vinci system operators with increasing purchasing power and are increasingly evaluating their da vinci surgery programs to optimize the efficiency of the da vinci system operations. further, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. as a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first fiscal quarter and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpopexies, hernia repairs, cholecystectomies, and certain other surgeries. many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. historically, we have experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases by customers. the above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is possible that in future periods our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that our operating results in any particular period may not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. we are subject to a variety of risks due to our operations outside of the u.s. we manufacture, perform research and development activities, and distribute our products in ous markets. revenue from ous markets accounted for approximately 27% , 28% , and 29% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. our ous operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks including: failure to obtain or maintain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the u.s.; multiple ous regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products; changes in tariffs, trade barriers, and regulatory requirements; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in ous markets; local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products; u.s. relations with the governments of the foreign countries in which we operate; inability or regulatory limitations on our ability to move goods across borders; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing ous operations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; building and maintaining an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations; 19 table of contents anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; and business interruptions due to natural disasters, outbreak of disease, and other events beyond our control. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom (the uk ) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union (the eu ), commonly referred to as brexit. on march 29, 2017, the uk formally notified the eu of its intention to withdraw pursuant to article 50 of the lisbon treaty. the withdrawal of the uk from the eu will take effect either on the effective date of the withdrawal agreement or, in the absence of agreement, two years after the uk provided its notice of withdrawal. as a result of the referendum, the british government has begun negotiating the terms of the uk's future relationship with the eu, including the terms of trade between the uk and the eu. although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the uk and eu countries, increased regulatory complexities, and economic and political uncertainty in the region. in addition, the u.s. federal government has made recent proposals and explicit statements about its intention to make changes to u.s. trade policy, including signing an executive order to withdraw from the negotiating process of the trans-pacific partnership, renegotiate the terms of nafta, and imposing border taxes on imports into the u.s. we manufacture a majority of the instruments we sell in mexico and any legislation enacted that impacts the relationship between the u.s. and mexico and/or the continuity of nafta could adversely affect our operations and financial results. if enacted, any legislation taken by the u.s. federal government that restricts trade, such as tariffs, trade barriers, and other protectionist or retaliatory measures taken by governments in europe, asia, and other countries, could adversely impact our ability to sell products and services in our ous markets. furthermore, a large portion of our ous sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in ous markets. if we are unable to meet and manage these risks, our ous operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, which subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to sell or service our products in the markets serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. in addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them. please see our risk factor below titled we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention, and harm our business. the actions of our distributors may affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if a distributor holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance. it may be difficult, expensive, and time consuming for us to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance in such case. we are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers, which could result in material losses. we believe customer financing through leasing is an important consideration for some of our customers and have experienced an increase in demand for customer financing. we may experience loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to the contractual lease terms. our exposure to the credit risks relating to our lease financing arrangements may increase if our customers are adversely affected by changes in healthcare laws, coverage and reimbursement, economic pressures or uncertainty, or other customer-specific factors. although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing credit risks relating to these lease financing arrangements. if the level of credit losses we experience in the future exceed our expectations, such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relates to revenue and operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects our foreign currency-denominated revenue. margins on ous revenue could also be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as we may not be able to raise local prices to fully offset the strengthening of the u.s. dollar. conversely, the strengthening of foreign 20 table of contents currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, while generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings, may cause us to reduce pricing on our products in our ous markets and may cause us to incur losses on our foreign currency hedging instruments, thereby limiting the benefit that strengthened foreign currencies could have on our results of operations. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity, and expense. although we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to transactions denominated in the euro, japanese yen, korean won, british pound, and the swiss franc, and we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary, our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact caused by unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange risk. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market value of our investments. our investment portfolio includes both domestic and international investments. the credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity concerns, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, or other factors. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could fluctuate substantially. our other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of investments, impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments, changes in interest rates, increases or decreases in cash balances, volatility in foreign exchange rates, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investments may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. while we have not realized any significant losses on our cash equivalents or marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products, and our reputation may suffer. our success depends on the quality and reliability of our products. while we subject components sourced and products manufactured to stringent quality specifications and processes, our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and computer software, any of which may contain errors or exhibit failures, especially when products are first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, we and our customers have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products. although our products are subject to stringent quality processes and controls, we cannot provide assurance that our products will not experience component aging, errors, or performance problems. if we experience product flaws or performance problems, any or all of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. costs associated with product flaws or performance problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention, and harm our business. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings to which we are party, including purported class actions, derivative lawsuits, and product liability litigation, are described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. in particular, our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims, which are inherent to the medical device industry. product liability claims have been brought against us by or on behalf of individuals alleging that they have sustained 21 table of contents personal injuries and/or death as a result of purported product defects, the alleged failure to warn, and/or the alleged inadequate training by us of physicians regarding the use of the da vinci surgical system. the individuals who have brought the product liability claims seek recovery for their alleged personal injuries and in many cases, punitive damages. current product liability claims have resulted in negative publicity regarding our company, and these and any other product liability or negligence claims or product recalls also could harm our reputation. please see our risk factor below titled negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues for additional risks related to the potential effects of negative publicity on our business. the outcome of these product liability claims and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. we currently self-insure our product liability risk and maintain third-party insurance coverage for certain other liabilities. however, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage from third-party carriers, or our self-insurance of product liability risk, would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses related to these lawsuits and proceedings or otherwise be excluded under the terms of any third-party policy. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant legal costs (including settlements, judgments, legal fees, and other related defense costs) and diversion of management attention. if we do not prevail in the purported class actions and derivative lawsuits, product liability litigation, or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. there have been articles published and papers written questioning patient safety and efficacy associated with da vinci surgery, the cost of da vinci surgery relative to other disease management methods, and the adequacy of surgeon training. negative publicity, including statements made by public officials, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. in addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, regardless of whether these claims are meritorious. the number of claims could be further increased by plaintiffs' law firms that use a wide variety of media to advertise their services and solicit clients for product liability cases against us. we are subject to significant, uninsured liabilities. for certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. for example, we self-insure our product liability risks and we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not carry insurance to cover that indemnity or the related underlying losses. we also do not carry, among other types of coverage, earthquake, and cyber insurance. in addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors' and officers' insurance may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases we are self-insured completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we (or our critical suppliers) may encounter difficulties in scaling up or maintaining production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; import or export restrictions on components, materials or technology; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal, and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 22 table of contents our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. in the u.s., hospitals generally bill for the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid, and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in ous markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many ous markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those in the u.s. are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled changes in healthcare legislation and policy may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. for example, our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural disasters or other events beyond our control could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities, and other business disruptions, including but not limited to internet security threats, could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. for example, the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan and their aftermath created economic uncertainty and disrupted economic activities in japan, including a reduction in hospital spending. furthermore, our corporate headquarters and many of our operations, including certain of our manufacturing facilities, are located in california, which in the past has experienced both severe earthquakes and other natural disasters. we do not have multiple-site capacity for all of our operations in the event of a business disruption. furthermore, parties in our supply chain and our customers are similarly vulnerable to natural disasters or other sudden, unforeseen, and severe adverse events. a natural disaster in any of our major markets, or an unanticipated business disruption caused, for example, by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks, or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. epidemic diseases or the perception of their effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 23 table of contents outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as the ebola virus, middle east respiratory syndrome, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or the h1n1 virus, could divert medical resources and priorities towards the treatment of that disease. an outbreak of a contagious disease could also negatively affect hospital admission rates. this could negatively impact the number of da vinci procedures performed and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if we do not successfully manage our collaboration arrangements, licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships with third parties, we may not realize the expected benefits from such alliances and it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows . from time to time, we enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships to complement or augment our research and development, product development, training, procedure development, and marketing efforts. for example, in 2016, we entered into an agreement to form a joint venture with fosun pharma to research, develop, manufacture, and sell robotic-assisted catheter-based medical devices. proposing, negotiating, and implementing collaborations, in-licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. in addition, other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology, or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. as a result, we may not identify, secure, or complete any such arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or on otherwise favorable terms, if it all. there can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these alliances. in addition, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding any collaboration or other arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our alliances may have economic or business interests that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our interests. it is possible that conflicts may arise in these relationships, such as conflicts concerning the achievement of performance milestones, or the interpretation of significant terms under any agreement, such as those related to financial obligations, termination rights or the ownership or control of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. these alliances can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of the parties involved, and we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties. the alliances may involve significant expense and divert the focus or attention of our management and other key personnel. any of these relationships may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near- and long-term expenditures, or disrupt our ordinary business activities. such arrangements may also expose us to numerous known and unknown risks, including unique risks with respect to the economic, political, and regulatory environment of any foreign entities with whom we partner, including fosun pharma. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or our business may be harmed. we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands, and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products, or technologies rather than through internal development. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies, or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. an acquired company may have deficiencies in product quality, regulatory marketing authorizations, or intellectual property protections, which are not detected during due diligence activities or which are unasserted at the time of acquisition. it may be difficult, expensive, and time consuming for us to re-establish market access, regulatory compliance, or cure such deficiencies in product quality or intellectual property protection in such cases, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, or cash flows. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors, or other partners for a variety of reasons, including that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 24 table of contents changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the reevaluation of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. we use estimates, make judgments, and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. as these estimates, judgments, and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time may lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes as well as the number and type (cancerous or benign) of certain da vinci procedures performed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. our estimates of surgical market sizes or the number and type of da vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations, but are used to estimate the progress of our business. estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and the number and type of da vinci procedures and the accuracy of these estimates may be impacted over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, system internet connectivity, distributor reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee, and other factors. in addition, from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and the number and type of da vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting. changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. tax rates in these jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic and/or political conditions. a number of other factors may also impact our future effective tax rate including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in availability of tax credits, tax holidays, and tax deductions; changes in share-based compensation; and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. federal government enacted the tax cuts and jobs act ( 2017 tax act ). the 2017 tax act significantly changed the existing u.s. corporate income tax laws by, among other things, lowering the corporate tax rate, implementing a territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time deemed repatriation toll tax on cumulative undistributed foreign earnings, for which we have not previously provided u.s. taxes. given the timing, scope, and magnitude of the changes enacted by the 2017 tax act, along with on-going implementation efforts, guidance, and other developments from u.s. regulatory and standard-setting bodies, the completion of the accounting for certain tax items included in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, that have been reported as provisional, or where no estimate of the impact was provided as a result of us not having the necessary information, may be subject to material change. any significant changes to our future effective tax rate, including final resolution of provisional amounts relating to effects of the 2017 tax act, may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations, and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process, and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast, and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially 25 table of contents and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. our business requires us to use and store customer, employee, and business partner personally identifiable information ( pii ). this may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. we require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. we also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. these security measures may be compromised as a result of security breaches by unauthorized persons, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. for example, our employees have received phishing emails and phone calls attempting to induce them to divulge passwords and other sensitive information. in addition, unauthorized persons may attempt to hack into our products or systems to obtain personal data relating to patients or employees, our confidential or proprietary information or confidential information we hold on behalf of third parties. if the unauthorized persons successfully hack into or interfere with our connected products or services, they may create issues with product functionality that could pose a risk of loss of data, a risk to patient safety, and a risk of product recall or field activity. we have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to data security incidents, and we make ongoing improvements to our information-sharing products in order to minimize vulnerabilities, in accordance with industry and regulatory standards. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect, we may not be able to anticipate and prevent these intrusions or mitigate them when and if they occur. we also rely on external vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. the systems of these external vendors may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security of our own systems, and we are dependent on these third parties to deploy appropriate security programs to protect their systems. while we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. we may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs, and security vulnerabilities could be significant. our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service, and harm to our business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of pii, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of our products and services could decrease. we would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. risks relating to our regulatory environment changes in healthcare legislation and policy may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in the u.s., there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. in march 2010, the ppaca was enacted, which made changes that have impacted and are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. the ppaca contained a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansions among other things. this includes fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. for sales between january 1, 2013, and december 31, 2015, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain u.s. medical device revenues. though there were some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax did apply to all or most of our products sold within the u.s. in december 2015, the former u.s. president signed into law the appropriations act. the appropriations act included a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax such that medical device revenues in 2016 and 2017 were exempt from the excise tax. new legislation was passed in january 2018 such that mdet will be delayed until january 1, 2020. the ppaca also implemented a number of medicare payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians, and other providers to improve the coordination, quality, and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models, and appropriated funding for comparative effectiveness research. the taxes imposed by the ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 26 table of contents since its enactment, there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ppaca, as well as efforts by the current u.s. administration to modify, repeal or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. since january 2017, the u.s. president has signed two executive orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the ppaca or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ppaca. the current u.s. administration has also announced that it will discontinue the payment of cost-sharing reduction ( csr ) payments to insurance companies until congress approves the appropriation of funds for the csr payments. the loss of the csr payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the ppaca. a bipartisan bill to appropriate funds for csr payments has been introduced in the senate, but the future of that bill is uncertain. in addition, cms has recently proposed regulations that would give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the ppaca for plans sold through such marketplaces. because of the 2017 tax act, the ppaca's individual mandate penalty for not having health insurance coverage will be eliminated starting in 2019. it is unclear what impact the elimination of the individual mandate penalty will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. further, each chamber of congress has put forth multiple bills designed to repeal or repeal and replace portions of the ppaca. although the majority of these measures have not been enacted by congress to date, congress will likely continue to consider other legislation to repeal or repeal and replace elements of the ppaca. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. these changes included aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013, and will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. macra repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. it is unclear what impact new quality and payment programs, such as macra, may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. individual states in the u.s. have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, and discounts, and require marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures. we expect additional state and federal health care reform measures to be adopted in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our customers. any changes of, or uncertainty with respect to future reimbursement rates, or changes in hospital admission rates could impact our customers' demand for our products and services, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. further, the federal, state and local governments, medicare, medicaid, managed care organizations, and foreign governments have in the past considered, are currently considering, and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the u.s. or other countries, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes, competitive bidding or tender processes for certain products and services, and other changes intended to reduce expenditures along with uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. we are unable to predict whether other healthcare policies, including policies stemming from legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect such policies would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act requires us to track and disclose the source of any tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten used in manufacturing which may originate in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining regions (so called conflict minerals ). these metals are central to the technology industry and are present in some of our products as component parts. in most cases no acceptable alternative material exists which has the necessary properties. because it is not possible to determine the source of the metals by analysis, we must obtain a good faith description of the source of the intermediate components and raw materials from parties in our supply chain. the components that incorporate those metals may originate from many sources and we purchase fabricated products from manufacturers who may have a long and difficult-to-trace supply chain. as the spot price of these materials varies, producers of the metal intermediates can be expected to change the mix of sources used. accordingly, components and assemblies we buy may have a mix of sources as their origin. we are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. there can be no assurance we can obtain this information 27 table of contents accurately or reliably, or at all, from intermediate producers who may be unwilling or unable to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. in addition, these metals are subject to price fluctuations and shortages which can affect our ability to obtain the manufactured materials we rely on at favorable terms or from consistent sources. these changes could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture and market our devices and products. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, prohibit payments, or other remuneration that could be considered to induce hospitals, physicians, or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order, of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid and any other third-party payor programs. further, the ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the ppaca provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. although we would not submit claims directly to government payors, manufacturers can be held liable under the federal false claim act if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. these laws may affect our sales, marketing, and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians, or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial and include exclusion from government healthcare programs for non-compliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. the ppaca also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, as well as any transfers of value made to such physician owners and investors, during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $165,786 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1.105 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. device manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year. in addition, there has been increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. certain states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices, and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians or marketing expenditures and pricing information. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance of one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties. compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our ous operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the u.s. and/or abroad. these numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory review process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory authorizations, we will not be able to provide our products in the u.s. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s. by the fda. the fda regulates the development and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, sales, distribution, and post-market support and medical device reporting in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market products for use in the u.s., we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food drug and cosmetic act ( ffdca ). clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered ( pre-amendment ) status. 28 table of contents if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application ( pma ) for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the u.s. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. a pma is typically a much more complex, lengthy and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. in some cases such studies may be requested for a 510(k) as well. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude the sale of new products in the u.s. moreover, we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, in which case the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, the fda or other regulatory agencies may change their policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis. we may be found non-compliant as a result of future changes in, or interpretations of, regulations by the fda or other regulatory agencies. we also cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation, administrative, or executive action. for example, certain policies of the current u.s. administration may impact our business and industry. namely, the current u.s. administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of executive orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, the fda's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications. it is difficult to predict how these requirements will be implemented, and the extent to which they will impact the fda's ability to exercise its regulatory authority. if these executive actions impose constraints on fda's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a medical device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board ( irb ) approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption ( ide ) application. many of our products to date have been or would be considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the u.s. for any new devices we intend to market in the u.s. in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to conduct studies which comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certainty that clinical trials will meet desired endpoints, produce meaningful or useful data and be free of unexpected adverse effects, or that the fda will accept the validity of foreign clinical study data cannot be assured, and such uncertainty could preclude or delay market clearance or authorizations resulting in significant financial costs and reduced revenue. in addition, some products may be regulated by the fda as drugs, biologics, or combination devices which carry still greater requirements for clinical trials, regulatory submissions, and approvals. complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous quality and post-market regulatory requirements apply, including the following: continued compliance to the qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation, and other quality assurance procedures during the development and manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda's general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; stringent complaint reporting and medical device reporting ( mdr ) regulations, which requires that manufacturers keep detailed records of investigations or complaints against their devices and to report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; 29 table of contents adequate use of the corrective and preventive actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest same; and the reporting of corrections and removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from inspectional observations (form fda 483) to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products. the fda has in the past issued and could in the future issue warning letters or other communications to us. if we fail to satisfy or remediate the matters discussed in any such warning letters or communications, the fda could take further enforcement action, including prohibiting the sale or marketing of the affected product. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the receipt of a warning letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain fda issued certificates to foreign government ( cfgs ) used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries. the fda also strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion, and other activities relating to the marketing of our products. medical devices may be promoted only for their cleared or approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the cleared or approved label. it is possible that federal or state enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under a variety of statutory authorities, including under the ffdca as well as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. in addition, any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance. we have created labeling, advertising, and user training for the da vinci surgical system to describe specific surgical procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) indications for use stated in our 510(k) clearances. although we have relied on expert in-house and external staff, consultants and advisors, some of whom were formerly employed by fda and familiar with fda perspective, we cannot provide assurance that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. from time to time we modify our products, including the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system, after we obtain 510(k) clearance from the fda for the devices in ways that we do not believe require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot provide assurance that the fda would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. if the fda disagrees with our assessments that a new 510(k) clearance was not required prior to commercializing the devices with these changes or modifications, then the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. we have a wholly owned manufacturing facility located in mexicali, mexico which manufactures reusable and disposable surgical instruments. this facility is registered with the fda as well as mexican authorities. the facility is operated under u.s. and international quality system regulations including those applicable to canada, the european union, and japan among others. our wholly owned manufacturing facility in mexicali, mexico has an fda establishment registration but has not been inspected by the fda to date. if the fda were to identify non-conformances in our product documentation or quality system compliance, it could hold indefinitely the importation of instruments at the border which would deprive us of the ability to sell and supply the majority of our customers until the fda requirements have been satisfied. similar supply disruptions could occur if key suppliers outside of the u.s. were to encounter non-conformances with their documentation or quality system compliance. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to provide our products in foreign countries. to be able to provide our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries which may differ substantially from those of the u.s. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or to obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. in particular, if the fda refuses to provide cfgs our ability to register products or renew such registrations may be delayed or denied. the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark, for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec), as amended, to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device 30 table of contents directives. in order to obtain the authorization to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes and products meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and have maintained this authorization continuously since that time. from time to time we seek the authorization to affix the ce mark to new or modified products. subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our notified body, presafe. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we are subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark authorizations we have already obtained including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives. we cannot be certain we will be able to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu and many affiliated countries that accept the ce mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some member states of the eu have additional requirements for registration and notification which may add to the time and effort to obtain market access. in addition, the regulations applied to end users of our products may increase over time, forcing us to provide additional solutions to regulations which do not apply directly to us, but which apply indirectly as they may limit our customers' ability to use our products. in april 2017, the medical device regulation was adopted to replace the medical device directive (93/42/eec), as amended. the medical device regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants notified bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification, or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. to date, we received approvals from the japanese ministry of health, labor and welfare ( mhlw ) for our da vinci , si , and xi surgical systems and various associated instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci procedures. we may seek additional approvals for other products and/or indications; however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, because not all of our instruments have received product approvals, and reimbursement is an additional process to generate market acceptance, it is possible that procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. to date, we have received reimbursement approval for prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy procedures in japan. there are multiple pathways to obtain reimbursement for procedures including those that require in-country clinical data and which are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. our capital sales in china are subject to importation authorizations and central purchasing tender processes. therefore, future system sales and our ability to grow future procedure volumes are dependent on the completion of these central purchasing tender authorizations, the most recent of which expired at the end of 2015. the timing and magnitude of these future authorizations, which may determine our system placements in future years, is not certain and we expect to continue to experience variability in the timing of capital sales in china. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state, or other manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, import/export of our products, and/or recall some products which would result in significant product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities, and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the fda and other regulatory agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr and other regulatory requirements. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization ( iso ) quality system standards as well as european directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in the eu. in addition, many countries such as canada and japan have very specific additional regulatory requirements for quality assurance and manufacturing. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements, as well as iso or other regulatory standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we continue to be subject to fda and certain other inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. our sunnyvale, california facility is licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we have been subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services food and drug branch and, if we are unable to maintain 31 table of contents this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship some products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in 2012 the state of california announced suspension of routine inspections but this policy could be modified or inspections could be resumed for specific circumstances. in addition, both our sunnyvale, california and mexicali, mexico facilities are subject to periodic inspections by other regulatory bodies, including third party auditors on behalf of national regulatory authorities. compliance with multiple regulatory standards is complex, difficult and costly to maintain, and material deficiencies could result in significant limitations on our ability to manufacture, transport, and sell our products in one or more countries. if hospitals and other surgery facilities do not continue to meet federal, state, or other regulatory standards, they may be required to temporarily cease all or part of their da vinci utilization. our global customers are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. our customers are required to comply with applicable local and international regulations, including with respect to the reprocessing of da vinci instruments and accessories. hospitals may not follow cleaning and sterilization instructions properly, or equipment used for cleaning and sterilization may malfunction or be used improperly. if our customers deviate from cleaning and sterilization instructions, regulatory authorities may require them to suspend use of da vinci surgical systems. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to fully protect and successfully defend our intellectual property from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success depends in part on obtaining patent protection for the proprietary technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents against infringing products and/or services in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent oppositions, reviews, or reexaminations. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our patent rights. we do not know whether we will be successful in obtaining the desired patent protection for our new proprietary technologies, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable when challenged. the success of defending our proprietary rights can be highly uncertain because it involves complex and often evolving legal issues and procedures that are dependent on particular facts of each case. in addition to patents, we also rely on other intellectual property rights such as trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws to protect proprietary technologies. we further utilize nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions as well as technical measures to protect our proprietary technologies. nevertheless, these measures may be inadequate in protecting our technologies. if these measures are proved to be inadequate in protecting our technologies, our competitive advantages may be reduced. moreover, we may not have adequate remedies for potential breaches by employees, consultants, and others who participate in developing our proprietary technologies against their agreements with us regarding intellectual property. as a result, our trade secrets may be lost. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technologies without infringing any of our intellectual property which would harm our ability to compete in the market. as foreign markets become more significant in revenue for us, our foreign operations and strategic alliances with foreign entities will likely increase. our exposure to risks associated with these operations requires us to increase our reliance on protecting our intellectual property against infringing products and/or services in markets outside the u.s. the laws and judicial systems in these countries may introduce yet another level of uncertainty to our effort to obtain the desired protection as well as defending our rights. others may be successful in asserting that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to pay substantial damages and/or enjoin us from commercializing our products. as we continue to introduce and commercialize new products and technologies, there may be u.s. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our products. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot be certain that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition, other parties may have filed or will file patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot be certain that patents issuing from our own patent application covering our products will have a priority date over any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party. the medical device industry has experienced extensive intellectual property litigation and administrative proceedings. if third parties assert infringement claims or institute administrative proceedings against us, our technical and management personnel will 32 table of contents need to spend time and effort and we will incur large expenses in defending these attacks. we cannot be certain that we will prevail in infringement, invalidity or unenforceability claims against us. if plaintiffs in patent administrative proceedings are successful, our patent portfolio may be adversely affected. if plaintiffs in any patent action are successful, we may be enjoined from selling our products, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, or we may be required to obtain a license that requires us to pay substantial royalties. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with several industry partners. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts' or investors' expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to maintain or grow our revenue. our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products achieve and maintain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is possible that in future periods our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock and the value of your investment will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and may fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2015, it reached a high of $185.73 and a low of $151.62; during fiscal 2016, it reached a high of $241.61 and a low of $169.09; and during fiscal 2017, it reached a high of $403.70 and a low of $209.83 , in each case after giving effect to the three-for-one stock split of our issued and outstanding common stock in october 2017. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; variations in operating results and financial guidance; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals and enforcement actions; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts; 33 table of contents changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; litigation; and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets generally have experienced, and in the future may experience significant price and volume volatility. this volatility has a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. further, the securities of many medical device companies, including us, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, it may have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange risk. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market value of our investments. our investment portfolio includes both domestic and international investments. the credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity concerns, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, or other factors. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could fluctuate substantially. our other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of investments, impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments, changes in interest rates, increases or decreases in cash balances, volatility in foreign exchange rates, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investments may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. while we have not realized any significant losses on our cash equivalents or marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products, and our reputation may suffer. our success depends on the quality and reliability of our products. while we subject components sourced and products manufactured to stringent quality specifications and processes, our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and computer software, any of which may contain errors or exhibit failures, especially when products are first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, we and our customers have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products. although our products are subject to stringent quality processes and controls, we cannot provide assurance that our products will not experience component aging, errors, or performance problems. if we experience product flaws or performance problems, any or all of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. costs associated with product flaws or performance problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention, and harm our business. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings to which we are party, including purported class actions, derivative lawsuits, and product liability litigation, are described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. consolidated cash flow data years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 1,143.9 $ 1,087.0 $ 806.2 investing activities 378.7 (1,279.4 ) (849.5 ) financing activities (1,913.1 ) 514.4 159.1 effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 2.1 (1.5 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (388.4 ) $ 322.0 $ 114.3 operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2017 , cash provided by our operating activities of $1,143.9 million exceeded our net income of $660.0 million due to non-cash charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities as outlined below: 1. our net income included non-cash charges, including share-based compensation of $ 209.1 million , depreciation and loss of disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $ 86.2 million , deferred income taxes of $62.9 million , investment related non-cash charges of $ 21.2 million , and amortization of intangible assets of $ 12.9 million . 2. changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in $91.6 million of cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2017. operating assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses and other assets, deferred revenue, and other accrued liabilities. other accrued liabilities increased by $219.3 million , primarily due to an increase in income tax payable as a result of the 2017 tax act. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service revenue that is being recognized as revenue over the service contract period, increased by $52.8 million primarily due to the higher number of installed systems for which service contracts existed. accrued compensation and employee benefits increased by $31.2 million . accounts payable increased by $14.0 million . the favorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by an increase of $115.5 million in inventory, including the transfer of equipment from inventory to property, plant, and equipment; an increase of $81.7 million in accounts receivable; and an increase of $28.5 million in prepaids and other assets. the increase in accounts receivable was primarily driven by higher revenue and timing of collections. the increase in prepaids and other assets 51 table of contents was primarily driven by higher lease receivable balances resulting from sales-type lease arrangement transactions entered into during the year ended december 31, 2017. for the year ended december 31, 2016, cash provided by our operating activities of $1,087.0 million exceeded our net income of $735.9 million primarily due certain to non-cash charges as outlined below: 1. our net income included non-cash charges including in the form of share-based compensation of $177.6 million; depreciation and loss of disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $73.9 million; investment related non-cash charges of $35.9 million; deferred income tax of $18.7 million; and amortization of intangible assets of $18.2 million. 2. the non-cash charges outlined above were partly offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in $3.0 million of cash used by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2016. operating assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses, deferred revenue, and other accrued liabilities. inventory, including the transfer of equipment from inventory to property, plant and equipment, increased by $46.7 million. accounts receivable increased $35.9 million primarily driven by higher revenue and timing of collections. prepaids and other assets increased $28.7 million primarily driven by higher lease receivable balances resulting from sales-type lease arrangement transactions entered into during year ended december 31, 2016. the unfavorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by a $53.8 million increase in other liabilities, primarily due to higher income tax payable, a $19.9 million increase in deferred revenue, an $18.7 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits, and a $15.9 million increase in accounts payable. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service revenue that is being recognized as revenue over the service contract period, increased primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts existed. for the year ended december 31, 2015, cash provided by our operating activities of $806.2 million exceeded our net income of $588.8 million for two primary reasons: 1. our net income included non-cash charges primarily in the form of share-based compensation of $167.9 million, depreciation and loss of disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $65.1 million, amortization of intangible assets of $24.4 million, and investment related non-cash charges of $26.4 million. 2. the non-cash charges outlined above were partly offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in $92.5 million of cash used by operating activities. operating assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue, other accrued liabilities, and prepaid expenses. accounts receivable increased $79.2 million in 2015 reflecting higher sales in 2015 and timing of sales and collections. prepaids and other assets increased $10.5 million primarily driven by higher lease receivable balances resulting from sales-type lease arrangements entered into in 2015. accrued liabilities decreased by $10.5 million mainly due to settlement payments made related to accrued product liability litigation. other changes in operating assets and liabilities include an inventory increase of $10.7 million, net of equipment transfers from inventory to property, plant and equipment, and a decrease in accounts payable of $11.3 million also resulted in cash used by operating activities. the unfavorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by a $21.5 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits and an $8.2 million increase of deferred revenue. investing activities net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2017 , consisted of proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments (net of purchases of investments) of $569.4 million partly offset by purchases of property, plant, and equipment of $190.7 million . net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016, consisted of purchases of investments (net of the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments) of $1.2 billion and purchases of property, plant, and equipment for $53.9 million. net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015, consisted of purchases of investments (net of the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments) of $768.5 million and purchases of property, plant, and equipment for $81.0 million. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s. treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and tax exempt municipal notes, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, non-u.s. government agency securities, cash deposits, and money market funds. financing activities net cash used in financing activities during 2017 primarily consisted of $ 2,274.0 million related to an accelerated share buyback program executed and settled during 2017 that is further described in note 8. stockholders' equity in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8, and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlement of 52 table of contents vested employee equity awards of $ 56.6 million . these uses partly offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $ 415.5 million . net cash provided by financing activities in 2016 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $580.9 million, partly offset by $42.5 million used for the repurchase of 0.2 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlement of vested employee equity awards of $24.0 million. net cash provided by financing activities in 2015 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $361.1 million, partly offset by $183.7 million used for the repurchase of 1.1 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlement of vested employee equity awards of $11.0 million. our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products, and other factors. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products. we have made substantial investments in our commercial operations, product development activities, facilities, and intellectual property. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements beyond one year and for the foreseeable future. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of december 31, 2017 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years operating leases $ 41.6 $ 8.2 $ 10.2 $ 6.4 $ 16.8 purchase commitments and obligations 478.1 466.3 11.8 other 270.2 21.6 43.2 43.2 162.2 total $ 789.9 $ 496.1 $ 65.2 $ 49.6 $ 179.0 operating leases. we lease spaces for operations in the u.s. as well as in japan, south korea, mexico, and other foreign countries. we also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our non-cancellable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and development arrangements. payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and have not been included in the table above. other. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. due to the enactment of the 2017 tax act, we estimated a provisional obligation associated with a one-time deemed repatriation toll charge to be $270.2 million, which will be paid in installments over eight years. this provisional amount, as well as the current estimated timing of payments, is subject to change based on additional guidance from and interpretations by u.s. regulatory and standard-setting bodies and changes in assumptions. off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2017 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. 53 table of contents critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ), which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries, u.s. government agencies, corporate debt, cash deposits, money market funds, commercial paper, non-u.s. government agency securities, and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds. the securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. the weighted-average duration of our portfolio as of december 31, 2017 , was approximately 0.9 years. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $8.3 million as of december 31, 2017 . we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. the uncertain financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we sell in euros and british pounds in those european markets where we have direct distribution channels, as well as in japanese yen, and in korean won. we operate in a number of markets on a direct sales basis and incur operating expenses in local currencies in europe, japan, and south korea. we also purchase certain product components from non-u.s. suppliers in local currency. as a result, because a portion of our operations consist of sales activities outside of the u.s., we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s. dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and foreign currency bank balances. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , sales denominated in foreign currencies (euro, british pound, japanese yen, and korean won) were approximately 17% of total revenue. the objective of our hedging program is to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , our revenue would have decreased by approximately $28.8 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate strengthened by 10%. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies to which we have exposure, after considering foreign currency hedges and offsetting positions as of december 31, 2017 , would have resulted in approximately $0.1 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. to mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. we monitor ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust our exposure to various counterparties. although we sell to distributors outside of the u.s. in u.s. dollars, strengthening of the dollar can impact our distributors' margins and could impact the end customers' ability to purchase our product if our distributors seek to recover the impact of the change in the dollar by increasing product and service prices. less than 10% of our revenue is conducted through distributors outside the u.s. strengthening of the dollar relative to non-u.s. currencies could have an adverse impact on our business. 57 table of contents our operations outside of the u.s. are subject to risks typical of operations outside of the u.s., including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 58 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business in this report, intuitive surgical, intuitive, the company, we, us, and our refer to intuitive surgical, inc. and its wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries. intuitive , intuitive surgical , da vinci , da vinci , da vinci hd surgical system , da vinci si , da vinci si hd surgical system , da vinci xi , da vinci sp , endowrist , firefly , insite , da vinci connect , intuitive surgical ecosystem , da vinci x , sureform tm , single-site , and ion tm are trademarks or registered trademarks of the company. company background intuitive is committed to advancing patient care in surgery and other acute medical interventions. the company is focused on innovating to enable physicians and healthcare providers to improve the quality of and access to minimally invasive care. intuitive has pioneered the introduction of robotic-assisted surgery to clinical practice over the past two decades with our da vinci surgical systems for minimally invasive, robotic-assisted surgery and our 510(k) pending ion endoluminal system for minimally invasive biopsies in the peripheral lung. with the aim of entering the body less invasively, seeing anatomy more clearly, interacting with tissue more precisely, and enabling surgical skill, intuitive launched its first da vinci surgical system in 1999. in 2000, it was cleared by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) for general laparoscopic surgery. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable complex surgery using a minimally invasive approach. it consists of: an ergonomic surgeon console or consoles; a patient-side cart with interactive arm or arms; a high-performance vision system; and proprietary instruments and accessories. surgeons using the da vinci system operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a three dimensional high definition ( 3dhd ) image of the surgical field. this immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. while seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the open surgery approach. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremors inherent in a surgeon's hands. in designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy and safe to use. our systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons: immersive 3dhd visualization. our vision system includes a 3dhd endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. the da vinci surgical system provides visualization of target anatomy with natural depth-of-field and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. with our firefly fluorescence imaging technology, surgeons can use our specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts beneath tissue surfaces in real-time. precise and tremor-free endoscope control. our imaging system also incorporates our proprietary camera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom, and rotate his or her field of vision. surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left and right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image. advanced instruments. we offer a comprehensive suite of stapling, energy and core instrumentation for our surgical systems. most of our proprietary instruments feature endowrist technology, incorporating wrist joints. inspired by the human hand, our wristed instruments enable surgeons to orient the instruments carefully relative to tissue and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery. intuitive instrument movements. our technology is designed to transform the surgeon's natural hand movements outside the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient's body. for example, with the da vinci surgical system, a hand movement to the right outside the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. in contrast, conventional minimally invasive surgery ( mis ) instruments are long rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. in conventional mis, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon's hand and surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to compensate for the direction reversal by the pivot. scaled, tremor filtered instrument movement. with our technology, a surgeon can also use motion scaling, a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient's body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient's body. motion scaling is designed to allow precision and control for delicate tasks. in addition, our technology filters the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hands. improved surgeon ergonomics. the da vinci surgical system is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. the da vinci surgical system's design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon's console. because the da vinci surgical system's robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue. 4 table of contents multi-specialty surgical platform. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures, within our targeted gynecologic, urologic, general surgery, cardiothoracic, and head and neck specialties. to date, surgeons have used the da vinci surgical system to perform dozens of different types of surgical procedures. while we do not expect all of these different types of procedures to become widely adopted, they demonstrate the flexibility of the da vinci surgical system. advanced training tools. training technologies include our simulation program which provides for independent da vinci skills development through interactive virtual reality ( vr ) exercises, and our telementoring program which provides real-time surgeon-to-surgeon learning and collaboration during robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system. products da vinci surgical systems intuitive's primary platform for robotic-assisted surgery is our family of da vinci surgical systems. we have commercialized the following four generational platforms of da vinci surgical systems: our fourth generation da vinci x, da vinci xi and da vinci sp surgical systems, our third generation da vinci si surgical system, our second generation da vinci surgical system, and our first generation da vinci standard surgical system. da vinci surgical systems are comprised of the following components: surgeon's console . the da vinci surgical system allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic console viewing a 3d image of the surgical field. the surgeon's fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with the surgeon's hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. using electronic hardware, software, algorithms, and mechanics, our technology translates the surgeon's hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of the da vinci instruments positioned inside the patient. on our most current systems, da vinci x , da vinci xi , and da vinci si, a second surgeon's console may be used in two ways: first, to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or second, to act as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. with da vinci x , da vinci xi , and da vinci si, a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of the da vinci instruments during the surgery. in addition, surgeons can control 3d virtual pointers to augment the dual-surgeon experience. patient-side cart . the patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the patient. up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned, as appropriate, and then locked into place. at least two arms hold surgical instruments, one representing the surgeon's left hand and one representing the surgeon's right hand. a third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom, and rotate the field of vision. a fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a third instrument to perform additional tasks. the fourth instrument arm is a standard integrated feature on da vinci x, xi, and si surgical systems. our da vinci sp surgical system includes a single arm with three, multi-jointed, wristed instruments and the first da vinci fully wristed 3dhd camera. the instruments and the camera all emerge through a single cannula and are triangulated around the target anatomy to avoid external instrument collisions that can occur in narrow surgical workspaces. 3dhd vision system. our vision system includes our insite 3d endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. the resulting 3dhd image has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker, and low cross fading. a digital zoom feature in the 3dhd vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and thereby reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. the 3dhd vision is a standard integrated feature on da vinci x , xi , sp, si , and surgical systems. da vinci skills simulator. the skills simulator is a practice tool that gives a user the opportunity to practice their skills and gain familiarity with the surgeon console controls. the skills simulator incorporates 3d, physics-based computer simulation technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment. the user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. upon completion of a skills exercise, the skills simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. the skills simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for the da vinci x, xi, and sp surgical systems. da vinci xi integrated table motion . integrated table motion coordinates the movements of the da vinci robot arms with an advanced operating room table, the trusystem 7000dv sold by trumpf medical tm , to enable managing the patient's position in real-time while the da vinci surgical robotic arms remain docked. this gives operating room teams the capability to optimally position the operating table during da vinci system procedures. integrated table motion enables surgeons to maximize reach, facilitate access, and choose the angle of approach to target anatomy, as well as reposition the table during the procedure to enhance anesthesiologists' management of the patient. firefly fluorescence imaging . firefly is a standard feature of the da vinci x and xi surgical system and available on our da vinci si surgical system. this imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da vinci camera head, 5 table of contents endoscope and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy. firefly is typically used in the categories of urology, gynecology, and general surgery. instruments and accessories da vinci instruments . we manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate endowrist technology with wristed joints for natural dexterity, and tips customized for various surgical procedures. da vinci instruments are offered in a variety of diameters, of which 5mm and 8mm diameter sizes are the most commonly sold. various da vinci instrument tips include forceps, scissors, electrocautery tools, scalpels, and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon from open surgery and conventional mis. a variety of instruments may be selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. most instruments are sterilizable at the hospital, while others are provided sterile, and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. a programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the da vinci system and instruments work together. in addition, the chip will generally not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. da vinci stapling . the endowrist stapler is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection, and/or creation of anastomoses. this instrument enables operators to precisely position and fire the stapler. we market three types of staplers: the endowrist stapler 45 and 30, and the sureform 60 where the numeric designation indicates the length of the staple line. the endowrist stapler 45 is used in general, gynecologic, and urologic surgery. the endowrist stapler 30, available with the da vinci x and xi surgical system, is intended to deliver particular utility with fine tissue interaction in lobectomy and other thoracic procedures. the sureform 60 is a single-use, fully wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection, and/or creation of anastomoses, with particular utility in bariatric procedures. da vinci energy . the endowrist one vessel sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. this instrument enables surgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of robotic-assisted surgery. this instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures. the da vinci vessel sealer extend is our newest instrument in the vessel sealing family of products. da vinci vessel sealer extend is a single use, fully wristed bipolar electrosurgical instrument compatible with our fourth generation multiport systems. it is intended for grasping and blunt dissection of tissue and for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. da vinci single-site. da vinci single-site is a set of non-wristed and wristed instruments and accessories that allow da vinci surgical systems to work through a single incision, typically in the umbilicus, rather than multiple incisions. single incision surgery is intended to minimize trauma to patients by reducing the number of ports required to enter the body and is typically utilized for less complex surgery than multi-port surgery. accessory products . we sell various accessory products which are used in conjunction with the da vinci surgical system as surgical procedures are performed. accessory products include sterile drapes used to help ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products such as replacement 3d stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other items that facilitate use of the da vinci surgical system. business strategy our goal is to fundamentally improve surgery and other acute interventions by enabling physicians and hospitals to improve outcomes for their patients, improve their patient's experience and the care team experience, and lower total cost to treat per patient episode. through the use of smart, connected systems, robotic technologies, advanced imaging, and informatics, our objective is to create value for patients, surgeons, and hospitals as summarized below: patient value. we believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as: patient value = procedure efficacy/invasiveness . we define procedure efficacy as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness as how disruptive and painful the treatment is itself. when the patient value of a da vinci procedure is deemed higher than alternate treatment options, patients may seek out surgeons and hospitals that offer that specific da vinci procedure. da vinci procedure adoption occurs procedure by procedure and is driven by the relative patient value and total treatment costs of da vinci procedures compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state. we believe most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. our goal is to provide products to surgeons who in turn provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options. surgeon value. we offer surgeons and their operating room staff training on the technical use of our products. we provide an ergonomic platform for surgeons to perform their procedures. we seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy to use products. 6 table of contents hospital value. we assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value using da vinci products, thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced length of patient stay. we believe robotic-assisted surgery with the da vinci surgical system is a cost effective approach to many surgeries as compared to alternative treatment options, as recognized in many published studies. clinical applications we are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and applications for robotic-assisted surgery with the da vinci surgical system an important part of our creative process. we primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value, surgeon value, and hospital value. we currently focus on five surgical specialties: gynecologic surgery, urologic surgery, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. key procedures which we are focused on include da vinci hysterectomy ( dvh ), da vinci prostatectomy ( dvp ), da vinci for hernia repair, da vinci for colon and rectal procedures, da vinci for partial nephrectomy, da vinci for sacrocolpopexy, da vinci for lobectomy, da vinci for transoral robotic surgery, and da vinci for mitral valve repair. representative surgical applications are described below. gynecologic surgery hysterectomy. removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and is performed for a variety of underlying benign and cancerous conditions. hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy), or mis techniques, which include vaginal, laparoscopic, and robotic approaches. prior to the clearance of da vinci surgical system for use in gynecological procedures in 2005, the majority of hysterectomies performed were open surgeries. we believe that robotic-assisted surgery with the da vinci surgical system provides patients the opportunity to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an alternative to an open hysterectomy. hysterectomies for benign conditions can be performed using either multi-port or single-site technology and we estimate that a majority of robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system is performed using multi-port techniques. single-site instruments enable surgeons to perform surgery through a single port via the patient's umbilicus, allowing for significantly reduced scarring. sacrocolpopexy. the abdominal (open) sacrocolpopexy is one of the operations performed to treat vaginal vault prolapse. sacrocolpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). a sacrocolpopexy can be performed using a conventional laparoscopic technique; however, it is generally described as difficult and cumbersome to perform. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a larger number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of sacrocolpopexy patients. urologic surgery prostatectomy. radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. the standard approach to removal of the prostate was via an open surgical procedure. the conventional laparoscopic approach is an option but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. the da vinci surgical system has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique. partial nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor). partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. excluding robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy, and hand assisted laparoscopy, which is a hybrid of the open and laparoscopic techniques. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients. treatment guidelines for patients with localized renal cancer recommend partial nephrectomy due to the benefits nephron-sparing surgery has in long-term patient outcomes. published clinical literature has shown that the presence of a da vinci surgical system is associated with a higher-proportion of patients receiving a guideline-recommended partial nephrectomy. general surgery hernia repair. a hernia occurs when an organ or other tissue squeezes through a weak spot in a surrounding muscle or connective tissue. during a hernia repair surgery, the weakened tissue is secured and defects are repaired. common types of hernia are ventral and inguinal. ventral, or abdominal hernia, may occur through a scar after surgery in the abdomen. inguinal hernia is a bulge in the groin and is more common in men. hernia repair can be performed using traditional open surgery or mis. there is a wide-range of complexity in hernia repair surgeries and varying surgeon opinion regarding optimal surgical approach. the benefits of minimally invasive and robotic hernia repair surgery vary by patient. 7 table of contents colorectal surgery. these procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular the rectum or colon. common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection, and abdominoperineal resection. surgeons have reported that the use of robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system and our latest technologies, such as the da vinci xi surgical system, endowrist stapler, and endowrist vessel sealer, have enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients. cholecystectomy. cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of the gall bladder, is a commonly performed general surgery procedure. cholecystectomy is the primary method for the treatment of gallstones and other gall bladder diseases. most cholecystectomies are performed using multi-port mis techniques, although some surgeons choose to perform cholecystectomy using manual single-port instrumentation. using da vinci single-site instruments, many of the technical challenges of manual single-port mis are reduced as surgeons benefit from additional precision, control, and improved ergonomics. multi-port da vinci techniques are also being used for certain cases, and firefly technology can be used to visualize biliary anatomy in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces during single-site and multi-port da vinci cholecystectomies. bariatric surgery . a body of literature points to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its secondary effects, such as diabetes. sleeve gastrectomy and roux-en-y gastric bypass ( rygb ) are commonly performed surgical procedures for morbid obesity in the u.s. the body habitus of morbidly obese patients can make laparoscopic surgery physically challenging for the surgeon, and certain surgeons have found value in using the da vinci surgical system to improve upon the ergonomics when performing mis in morbidly obese patients. in addition, rygb can be a technically challenging procedure because of the suturing, stapling, and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. surgeons using the da vinci surgical system have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to laparoscopic rygb. we believe sureform 60 may have particular utility in bariatric procedures. cardiothoracic surgery thoracic surgery. conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision, and esophagectomy. many thoracic procedures remain open procedures. surgeons have reported that the use of robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients and improved clinical outcomes compared to open and video-assisted thoracic surgery in published single-center, multi-center and national database clinical studies. we believe the endowrist stapler 30 may have particular utility in thoracic procedures. mitral valve repair. when patients are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are typically two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient's post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen. because mitral valve repairs are considered to be more technically challenging than mitral valve replacements, they are only performed approximately 50% of the time. several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when using the da vinci surgical system. head and neck surgery transoral surgery. head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation, or a combination of both. surgical resection performed by an open approach may require a jaw-splitting mandibulotomy. this procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is potentially traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. mis approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated by conventional endoscopic tools. chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions; however, literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients' ability to speak and swallow normally. surgeons have reported that da vinci transoral surgery allows them to operate on tumors occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line-of-sight limitations of conventional transoral surgery. procedure mix our procedure business is broadly split into two categories: (1) cancer procedures and (2) procedures for benign conditions. cancer and other highly complex procedures tend to be reimbursed at higher rates than less complex procedures. thus, hospitals are more sensitive to the costs associated with treating less complex benign conditions. our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economic solutions in each of these categories. our fully featured da vinci xi system with advanced instruments including the endowrist one vessel sealer, endowrist stapler products, and our integrated table motion product cover a wide range of procedures, from complex to those that are less so. our da vinci x surgical system and single-site instruments are targeted towards price sensitive markets and procedures. 8 table of contents clinical summary we believe there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the da vinci surgical system and we work closely with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in which da vinci may bring value. as of december 31, 2018 , we had an installed base of 4,986 da vinci surgical systems, including 3,196 in the u.s., 872 in europe, 651 in asia, and 267 in the rest of the world. we estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 1,037,000 surgical procedures of various types in hospitals throughout the world during the year ended december 31, 2018 . sales and customer support sales model we provide our products through direct sales organizations in the u.s., europe, excluding spain, portugal, italy, greece, and most eastern european countries, japan, south korea, india, and taiwan. in may and december 2018, we began direct operations in india and taiwan, respectively. in the remainder of our markets outside of the u.s. ( ous ), we provide our products through distributors. in january 2019, our joint venture (referred to herein as the joint venture ) with shanghai fosun pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. ( fosun pharma ) acquired certain assets related to the distribution business of chindex medical limited and its affiliates ( chindex ), a subsidiary of fosun pharma, which has been our distribution partner for da vinci surgical systems in china since 2011. in january 2019, our joint venture began direct operations for da vinci products and services in china. see item 7. management discussion and analysis for further details on the joint venture. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 . during the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , domestic revenue accounted for 71% , 73% , and 72% , respectively, of total revenue, while revenue from our ous markets accounted for 29% , 27% , and 28% , respectively. as of december 31, 2018 , and 2017 , 88% and 88% of all long-lived assets were in the u.s., respectively. our direct sales organization is composed of a capital sales team, responsible for selling da vinci surgical systems, and a clinical sales team, responsible for supporting da vinci surgical system use in surgical procedures performed at our hospital accounts. our hospital accounts include both individual hospitals and health care facilities and hospitals and health care facilities that are part of an integrated delivery network ( idn groups ). the initial da vinci surgical system sale into an account as a major capital equipment purchase by our customers typically has a lengthy sales cycle that can be affected by macroeconomic factors, capital spending prioritization, timing of budgeting cycles, and competitive bidding processes. capital sales activities include educating surgeons and hospital staff across multiple surgical specialties on the benefits of robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system, total treatment costs, and the clinical applications that our technology enables. we also train our sales organization to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including clinical benefits of robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system, potential reductions in complications and length of stay, and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction, surgeon recruitment, and procedure volume. our clinical sales team works on site at hospitals, interacting with surgeons, operating room staff, and hospital administrators to develop and sustain successful robotic surgery programs. they assist the hospital in identifying surgeons who have an interest in robotic surgery and the potential benefits provided by the da vinci surgical system. our clinical sales team provides current clinical information on robotic surgery practices and new product applications to the hospital teams. our clinical sales team has grown with the expanded installed base of da vinci surgical systems and the total number of procedures performed. we expect this organization to continue to grow as our business expands. our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. orders received are typically shipped within one business day. new direct customers who purchase a new da vinci surgical system typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories soon after they receive their system. our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first fiscal quarter and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. in addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. in the u.s., procedure volumes for procedures associated with benign conditions are typically seasonally higher in the fourth quarter when more patients have met annual deductibles and lower in the first quarter when deductibles are reset. seasonality outside the u.s. varies and is generally more pronounced around local holidays and vacation periods. the timing of procedures and changes in procedure volume impact the timing of instrument and accessory and capital purchases. customer support and training programs we have a network of field service engineers across the u.s., europe, and asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. this infrastructure of service and support specialists offers a full complement of services for our customers, including 24/7 support, installation, repair, and maintenance. we generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs. 9 table of contents we provide basic system training that teaches the fundamental operating principles of the da vinci surgical system to surgeons, surgical assistants, and operating room nurses. we have established training centers where system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. training technologies include our simulation program which provides for independent da vinci skills development through interactive vr exercises, and our telementoring program which provides real-time surgeon-to-surgeon learning and collaboration during robotic-assisted surgery. research and development we focus our research and development efforts on innovation and improvement for products and services that align with our mission: we believe that minimally invasive care is life-enhancing care. through ingenuity and intelligent technology, we believe we can expand the potential of physicians to heal without constraints. we employ engineering, research and development staff to focus on delivering future innovations and sustaining improvements that advance our mission. we establish strategic alliances with other medical and technology companies to complement our research and development effort. to date, these alliances have taken several forms, including cooperation in the areas of product development, training, procedure development, and marketing activities. we have formed alliances with several companies including, but not limited to, 3d systems, inc., bolder surgical holdings, inc. (formerly justright surgical, llc), erbe elektromedizin gmbh, intouch technology inc., johnson &amp; johnson, mimic technologies, inc., novadaq technologies, inc., olympus corporation, schoelly fiberoptic gmbh, and trumpf medical (a division of hill-rom holdings, inc.). manufacturing we manufacture our da vinci surgical systems at our facilities in sunnyvale, california and durham, north carolina. we manufacture our instruments at our sunnyvale and mexicali, mexico facilities. we purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). we purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods relative to our anticipated demand. competition we face competition in the forms of existing open surgery, conventional mis, drug therapies, radiation treatment, and emerging interventional surgical approaches. our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability as well as educating hospitals, surgeons, and patients on the demonstrated results associated with robotic-assisted surgery using da vinci surgical systems and its value relative to other techniques. we also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the mis market. we believe that many companies are focused on adding capability to manual mis systems. because many of these developments are aimed at mis, we believe that our da vinci surgical systems may prove complementary to some of these new technologies. moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g. da vinci stapling and da vinci vessel sealer extend) that compete with product offerings traditionally within the domains of open surgery and/or conventional mis, we face greater competition from larger and well established companies such as ethicon endo-surgery, inc. and medtronic plc. furthermore, a number of companies have introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit their intention to enter the field of robotic surgery including, but not limited to: auris health, inc.; avatera medical gmbh; cmr surgical limited; johnson &amp; johnson and google inc. and their joint venture, verb surgical inc.; medicaroid inc.; medrobotics corp.; medtronic plc; meerecompany inc.; olympus corp.; samsung corporation; smart robot technology group co. ltd.; titan medical inc.; transenterix inc.; and wego holding co., ltd. other companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. in addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. our revenues may be adversely impacted as our competitors announce their intent to enter our markets and as our customers anticipate the availability of competing products. intellectual property we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes. we generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. for example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. we also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own robust patent portfolio. 10 table of contents as of december 31, 2018 , we held ownership or exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 3,000 u.s. and foreign patents and more than 2,000 u.s. and foreign patent applications. we intend to continue filing new patent applications in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology. patents are granted for finite terms. upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a patent enter the public domain. government regulation our products and operations are subject to regulation by the fda, the state of california, and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use, and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate our compliance into the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to meet these standards could limit our ability to market our products in those regions which require compliance to such standards. examples of standards to which we are subject include electrical safety standards such as those of the international electrotechnical commission (e.g. iec 60601-ss series of standards), and composition standards such as the reduction of hazardous substances ( rohs ) and the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directives. united states the fda regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing, distribution, and service of medical devices in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in addition, the fda regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the u.s. to markets outside of the u.s. and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad. under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act ( ffdca ), medical devices are classified into one of three classes class i, class ii or class iii depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. our current products are class ii medical devices. class ii devices are those which are subject to general controls and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the fda, and clearance by the fda. premarket review and clearance by the fda for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process. unless a class ii device is exempt from premarket review, the manufacturer must submit to the fda a premarket notification submission demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent in intended use and technology to a predicate device that is either: a device that has grandfather marketing status because it was legally marketed prior to may 28, 1976, the date upon which the medical device amendments of 1976 were enacted; or a device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process. if the fda agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the u.s. the fda has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission, or a guidance-based 30-day period for special 510(k) submissions which have a more restrictive scope and generally involve more specific or very limited changes to a legally marketed device. as a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. the fda may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. if the fda determines that the device, or its intended use, is not substantially equivalent, the fda may deny the request for clearance. although unlikely for the types of products marketed by us, the fda may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into class iii, and the device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-market approval ( pma ) requirements. a pma application, which is intended to demonstrate that a device is safe and effective, must be supported by data, typically including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. the fda, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review a pma application, though the review more often occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. in approving a pma application or clearing a 510(k) submission, the fda may also require some form of post-market surveillance when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. in such cases, the manufacturer might be required to follow certain patient groups for a number of years and make periodic reports to the fda on the clinical status of those patients. after a device receives fda 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pma application approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make the determination of whether a modification requires a new 510(k) notification or pma application in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer's decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or pma approval for a particular change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease u.s. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. in addition, after a device is placed on the market, numerous fda and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. these include establishment registration and device listing with the fda; compliance with medical device reporting regulations, which 11 table of contents require that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may present a risk to health. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the u.s. have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the fda's good manufacturing practice ( gmp ) requirements contained in its quality system regulation ( qsr ) and associated regulations and guidance. the qsr covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with fda regulation, the manufacturer's own procedures, specifications, and testing as well as distribution and post-market experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the u.s. a company's facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the fda, which may issue reports known as forms fda 483 or notices of inspectional observations which list instances where the fda investigator believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if the observations are sufficiently serious or the manufacturer fails to respond appropriately, the fda may issue warning letters, or untitled letters, which are notices of potential enforcement actions against the manufacturer. if a warning letter or untitled letter is not addressed to the satisfaction of the fda, or if the fda becomes aware of any other serious issue with a manufacturer's products or facilities, it could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the u.s., and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. to a greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include periodic inspections, inspections by third-party auditors, and specialized documentation. failure to meet all the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support, and receive reimbursement for the use of our products in these countries. in addition to the above, we may seek to conduct clinical studies or trials in the u.s. or other countries on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for a particular indication. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation, and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such investigational use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board ( irb ). failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject the company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement, or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot provide assurance that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. products manufactured outside the u.s. by or for us are subject to u.s. customs and fda inspection upon entry into the u.s. we must demonstrate compliance of such products to u.s. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays. california regulation the state of california requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and until 2012 conducted periodic inspections of medical device manufacturers. our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in july 2011 and were found to be in compliance. in accordance with the state of california regulations, our license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information. although the state of california has announced suspension of routine periodic inspections, there can be no assurance the state of california will not resume such inspections or conduct such inspections under specific circumstances which are not yet known. foreign regulation in order for us to market our products in countries outside the united states, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations in other countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. some countries have regulatory review 12 table of contents processes which are substantially longer than u.s. processes. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive regulatory approval. we obtained from the japanese ministry of health, labor, and welfare ( mhlw ) approval for our da vinci si surgical systems in october 2012 and approval for our da vinci xi surgical systems in march 2015, and approval for our da vinci x surgical systems in april 2018. national reimbursement status was received in japan for dvp procedures, effective april 2012 and for da vinci partial nephrectomy procedures in april 2016. an additional 12 da vinci procedures were granted reimbursement effective april 1, 2018, including gastrectomy, anterior resection, lobectomy and hysterectomy, for both malignant and benign conditions. these additional 12 reimbursed procedures have varying levels of conventional laparoscopic penetration and will be reimbursed at rates equal to the conventional laparoscopic procedures. given the reimbursement level and laparoscopic penetration for these procedures, there can be no assurance that adoption will occur or, that the adoption pace for these procedures will be similar to any other da vinci procedure. if these procedures are not adopted and we are not successful in obtaining adequate procedure reimbursements for additional procedures, then the demand for our products in japan could be limited. we are currently seeking reimbursement for additional procedures through the mhlw's senshin iryo processes as well as alternative reimbursement processes. our senshin iryo approvals require in-country clinical data and are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years. commercialization of medical devices in europe is regulated by the european union ( eu ). the eu presently requires that all medical products bear the conformit europ enne ( ce ) mark, for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and performance mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu and those affiliated countries which accept the ce mark. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to affix the ce mark on products, a recognized european notified body must certify a manufacturer's quality system and design dossier for compliance with international and european requirements. we have received authorization from presafe denmark a/s (formerly dgm denmark a/s), a recognized european notified body and part of nemko presafe a/s, to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and accessories. to maintain authorization to apply the ce mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. in september 2013, the european commission adopted a recommendation indicating that all notified bodies, including presafe, should carry out unannounced audits, at least once every third year, of the manufacturers whose medical devices they have certified. these unannounced audits can also extend to the manufacturer's critical suppliers or sub-contractors (those that supply a critical input or perform a critical function for the manufacturer). if we modify our existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu or those whose marketing authorizations are based on the ce mark. in may 2017, the medical device regulation was implemented to replace the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the medical device regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants notified bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification, or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. certain countries, such as china and south korea, have their own regulatory agencies. these countries typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. our system sales into china are also dependent on obtaining importation authorizations, provincial approvals, and hospitals completing a tender process under the authorization. in october 2018, the china national health commission published on its official website the quota for major medical equipment to be imported and sold in china through 2020. the government will allow the sale of 154 new surgical robots into china, which could include da vinci surgical systems as well as surgical systems introduced by others. da vinci surgical systems sales under the quota are uncertain. in addition, local regulations may apply which govern the use of our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. all such regulations are revised from time to time and in general are increasing in complexity, and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing required. there can be no assurance the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. there are further regulations governing the importation, 13 table of contents marketing, sale, distribution, use, and service as well as the removal and disposal of medical devices in the regions in which we operate and market our products. failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions or fines and could prevent us from marketing our products in these regions. other healthcare laws we are also subject to federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency, privacy, and security laws and regulations. these laws include: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the medicare and medicaid programs. a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal anti-kickback statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims act; federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent. private individuals can bring false claims act qui tam actions, on behalf of the government and such individuals may share in amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement; the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary's decision to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier; federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; the federal physician payment sunshine act, which requires (i) manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under medicare, medicaid, or the children's health insurance program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ) information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists, and chiropractors), certain other healthcare professionals, and teaching hospitals, and (ii) applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to cms ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members, and payments or other transfers of value to such physician owners. manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year; and analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and pricing information; and laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, including the e.u. general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. if our operations are found to violate any of the laws described above or any other laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from our participation in federal and state healthcare programs, and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to market our products and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. third-party coverage and reimbursement in the u.s. and most markets ous where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all covered surgical procedures. governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and physicians for surgery when the procedure is considered medically necessary. in the 14 table of contents u.s., cms administers the medicare and medicaid programs (the latter, along with applicable state governments). many other third-party payors model their reimbursement methodologies after the medicare program. as the single largest payor, this program has a significant impact on other payors' payment systems. generally, reimbursement for professional services performed at a facility by physicians is reported under billing codes issued by the american medical association ( ama ), known as current procedural terminology ( cpt ) codes. physician reimbursement under medicare generally is based on a fee schedule and determined by the relative values of the professional service rendered. in addition, cms and the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to billing codes used by hospitals to report inpatient procedures, icd-10-pcs codes. for medicare, cms generally reimburses hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay based on a prospective payment system that is determined by a classification system known as medicare-severity diagnostic related groupings ( ms-drgs ). ms-drgs are assigned using a number of factors including the principal diagnosis, major procedures, discharged status, patient age, and complicating secondary diagnoses among other things. hospital outpatient services, reported by cpt codes, are assigned to clinically relevant ambulatory payment classifications ( apcs ) used to determine the payment amount for services provided. since october 1, 2015, a new family of icd-10-pcs codes can be used-in conjunction with other applicable procedure codes-to describe various robotic-assisted procedures. an inpatient surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the clinically relevant ms-drg. governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, contract terms, and other factors. because both hospitals and physicians may receive the same reimbursement for their respective services, with or without robotics, regardless of actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care, including for the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products. domestic institutions typically bill various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid, and other government programs and private insurance plans for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products. because our da vinci surgical system has been cleared for commercial distribution in the u.s. by the fda, coverage and reimbursement by payors are generally determined by the medical necessity of the primary surgical procedure. we believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies for appropriately selected patients. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. in countries outside the u.s., reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. in most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. in addition, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain european countries. to effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek ous reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. in some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such co-pay practices are not common in most countries. in the u.s., there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), was enacted. the ppaca made changes that have significantly impacted healthcare providers, insurers, and pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. the ppaca contained a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansion including, but not limited to, fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. for sales between january 1, 2013 and december 31, 2015, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% on certain u.s. medical device revenues. the consolidated appropriations act, 2016 (the appropriations act ), enacted in december 2015, included a two-year moratorium on medical device excise tax ( mdet ) such that medical device sales in 2016 and 2017 were exempt from the mdet. subsequent legislation was passed in january 2018 such that mdet will be delayed until january 1, 2020. the ppaca also appropriated funding to research the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. it remains unclear how this research will influence future medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions, as well as influence other third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies. the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the taxes imposed by ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits, lower reimbursement from payors for procedures that use our products, and/or reduced procedural volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. these changes included an aggregate reduction in medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and 15 table of contents will remain in effect through 2027 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, enacted on april 16, 2015 ( macra ), repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. individual states in the u.s. have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints and discounts, and require marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures. there have also been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ppaca, as well as efforts by the u.s. administration to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. since january 2017, the u.s. president has signed two executive orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the ppaca or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ppaca. the current u.s. administration has also announced that it will discontinue the payment of cost-sharing reduction ( csr ) payments to insurance companies until congress approves the appropriation of funds for the csr payments. the loss of the csr payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the ppaca. a bipartisan bill to appropriate funds for csr payments has been introduced in the senate, but the future of that bill is uncertain. in addition, cms has recently proposed regulations that would give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the ppaca for plans sold through such marketplaces. because of the tax cuts and jobs act ( 2017 tax act ) enacted on december 22, 2017, the ppaca's individual mandate penalty for not having health insurance coverage will be eliminated starting in 2019. further, each chamber of congress has put forth multiple bills designed to repeal or repeal and replace portions of the ppaca. on december 14, 2018, a u.s. district court judge in the northern district of texas, ruled that the individual mandate is a critical and inseverable feature of the aca, and therefore, because it was repealed as part of the 2017 tax act, the remaining provisions of the aca are invalid as well. while the current white house administration and cms have both stated that the ruling will have no immediate effect, it is unclear how this decision, subsequent appeals, if any, and other efforts to repeal and replace the aca will impact the aca and our business. although the majority of these measures have not been enacted by congress to date, congress will likely continue to consider other legislation to repeal or repeal and replace elements of the ppaca. any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. employees as of december 31, 2018 , we had 5,527 employees, 771 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 2,341 in manufacturing and service, and 2,415 in marketing, sales, and administrative activities. none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. general we make our periodic and current reports, including our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). our website address is www.intuitive.com and the reports are filed under sec filings, on the company investor relations portion of our website. periodically, we webcast company announcements, product launch events, and executive presentations which can be viewed via our investor relations page on our website. in addition, we provide notifications of our material news including sec filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our investor relations page on our website. the contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov . the contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. further, references to the urls for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. we operate our business as one segment as defined by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. our financial results for the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 are discussed in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this annual report. intuitive surgical, inc. was founded in 1995. we are a delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1020 kifer road, sunnyvale, california 94086. our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address is www.intuitive.com . 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient, and third-party payor acceptance of robotic-assisted surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery is crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians' and third-party payors' acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives and the evolving u.s. health care environment. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could materially adversely affect our company. uncertainty about global economic conditions, including credit and sovereign debt concerns in certain european countries and concerns about slowed economic growth in china and other ous markets, have caused and may continue to cause disruptions in the financial credit markets, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, and liquidity concerns. customers and distributors may choose to postpone or reduce spending due to financial difficulties or may be unable to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products due to restraints on credit. there could be additional effects from adverse conditions in the credit markets on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays. in addition, our business is closely tied to the overall u.s. healthcare system, relating to which there are concerns and uncertainties as a result of efforts made by the u.s. federal government to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. in addition, the u.s. federal government has called for, or enacted, substantial changes to trade, fiscal, and tax policies, which may include changes to existing trade agreements including, but not limited to, the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and may have a significant impact on our operations. we cannot predict the impact, if any, that these changes could have on our business. if economic conditions worsen or new legislation is passed related to the healthcare system, trade, fiscal or tax policies, customer demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors' products or services or may not accept da vinci robotic-assisted surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system is a technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, and pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than robotic-assisted surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. additionally, we face or expect to face competition from companies that develop or have developed wristed, robotic, or computer-assisted surgical systems and products. companies have introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field including, but not limited to: auris health, inc.; avatera medical gmbh; cmr surgical limited; johnson &amp; johnson and google inc. and their joint venture, verb surgical inc.; medicaroid inc.; medrobotics corp.; medtronic plc; meerecompany inc.; olympus corp.; samsung corporation; smart robot technology group 17 table of contents co. ltd.; titan medical inc.; transenterix inc.; and wego holding co., ltd. other companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become competitors. our revenues may be reduced due to pricing pressure or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. in addition, third-party service providers that provide services to da vinci surgical system operators may emerge and compete with us on price or offerings. to date, substantially all of our customers have sourced services on their da vinci surgical systems from us through service contract commitments or time and materials contracts. furthermore, there are third-party service providers offering consulting services targeted at analyzing the cost-effectiveness of hospitals' robotic surgery programs, including procedures performed, placement of systems, and consumption of instruments and accessories. we currently provide similar services and analysis to our customers, but it is difficult to assess the impact that this may have on our business. if we are unable to compete successfully with any third-party service providers, our revenues may suffer. our customers may use unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. a large portion of our revenue is generated through our sales of instruments and accessories. third parties have attempted to and may discover ways to manufacture and sell counterfeit reprocessed instruments and/or alter instruments that are compatible and function with the da vinci surgical system, and such activities may reduce our market share. while our sales arrangements with customers generally prohibit the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories with da vinci surgical systems, warranties will be void if such instruments and accessories are used, and a programmed memory chip inside each instrument is designed to prevent the instrument from being used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure, these measures may not prevent the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories by our customers. in addition to potential reductions to our revenues and market share, sales of unauthorized instruments and accessories by third parties may create safety and health risks to da vinci patients and could cause negative publicity for us if these products cause injuries and/or do not function as intended when used with the da vinci surgical systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. new product developments and introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we develop and introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. we may introduce new products that target different markets than what our existing products target. the success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, timely and successful research and development, regulatory clearances or approvals, pricing, competition, market and consumer acceptance, the effective forecasting and management of product demand, inventory levels, the management of manufacturing and supply costs, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. we invest substantially in various research and development projects to expand our product offerings. our research and development efforts are critical to our success, and our research and development projects may not be successful. we may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products we invest in and develop may not be well-received by customers or meet our expectations. our research and development investments may not generate significant operating income or contribute to our future operating results for several years, and such contributions may not meet our expectations or even cover the costs of such investments. in addition, the introduction or announcement of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products or reduce demand for our current products, thereby offsetting any benefits of successful product introductions and potentially leading to challenges in managing inventory of existing products. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory clearance, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. we have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products in advance of new product introductions and may experience a slowdown in demand in the future as well. it is also possible that a new product introduction could cause downward pressure on the prices of our existing products or require us to change how we sell our products, either of which could have material adverse effect on our revenues. if we fail to effectively develop new products and manage new product introductions in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. we expect gross profit margins to vary over time, and changes in our gross profit margins could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 18 table of contents our gross profit margins have fluctuated from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. our gross profit margins may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of da vinci surgical system models sold or leased; changes in the portion of sales involving a trade-in of another system and the amount of trade-in credits given; introduction of new products, which may have lower margins than our existing products; our ability to maintain or reduce production costs; changes to our pricing strategy; changes in competition; changes in production volume driven by demand for our products; changes in material, labor, or other manufacturing-related costs, including the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations for foreign-currency denominated costs; changes to u.s. and foreign trade policies, such as the enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the u.s. including, but not limited to, goods imported from mexico where we manufacture a majority of our instruments that we sell; inventory obsolescence and product recall charges; and market conditions. if we are unable to offset the unfavorable impact of the factors noted above by increasing the volume of products shipped, reducing product manufacturing costs, or otherwise, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. we experience long and variable capital sales cycles and seasonality in our business, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results. the sales and purchase order cycle of our da vinci surgical system is lengthy because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable. in addition, sales to some of our customers are subject to competitive bidding or public tender processes. these approval and bidding processes can be lengthy. as a result, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines. further, idn groups are creating larger networks of da vinci system users with increasing purchasing power and are increasingly evaluating their robotic-assisted surgery programs to optimize the efficiency of surgeries using the da vinci system. further, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. as a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first fiscal quarter and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpopexies, hernia repairs, cholecystectomies, and certain other surgeries. many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. historically, we have experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases by customers. the above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is possible that in future periods our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that our operating results in any particular period may not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. we are subject to a variety of risks due to our operations outside of the u.s. we manufacture, perform research and development activities, and distribute our products in ous markets. revenue from ous markets accounted for approximately 29% , 27% , and 28% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. our ous operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks including: failure to obtain or maintain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the u.s.; multiple ous regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products; changes in tariffs, trade barriers, and regulatory requirements; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in ous markets; 19 table of contents local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products; u.s. relations with the governments of the foreign countries in which we operate; inability or regulatory limitations on our ability to move goods across borders; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing ous operations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; building and maintaining an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations; anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials; antitrust and anti-competition laws; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; and business interruptions due to natural disasters, outbreak of disease, and other events beyond our control. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom (the uk ) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union (the eu ), commonly referred to as brexit. on march 29, 2017, the uk formally notified the eu of its intention to withdraw pursuant to article 50 of the lisbon treaty. the commencement of the official withdrawal process by the uk has created uncertainties affecting business operations in the uk and the eu. until the terms of the uk's exit from the eu on march 29, 2019 are determined, including any transition period, it is difficult to predict its impact. it is possible that the withdrawal could, among other things, affect the legal and regulatory environments to which our business is subject, impose greater restrictions on imports and exports between the uk and the eu and other parties, and create economic and political uncertainty in the region. in addition, the u.s. federal government has made changes to u.s. trade policy, including signing an executive order to withdraw from the negotiating process of the trans-pacific partnership, renegotiate the terms of nafta, and imposing border taxes on imports into the u.s. on november 30, 2018, the leaders of the u.s., mexico and canada signed a replacement to nafta, which remains subject to the ratification by the legislatures of each country. we manufacture a majority of the instruments we sell in mexico and any legislation enacted that impacts the relationship between the u.s. and mexico and/or the continuity of nafta could adversely affect our operations and financial results. in addition, the u.s. federal government has implemented, or is considering the imposition of, tariffs on certain foreign goods. such tariffs, and, if enacted, any further legislation or actions taken by the u.s. federal government that restrict trade, such as additional tariffs, trade barriers, and other protectionist or retaliatory measures taken by governments in europe, asia, and other countries, could adversely impact our ability to sell products and services in our ous markets. tariffs could increase the cost of our products and the components and raw materials that go into making them. these increased costs could adversely impact the gross margin that we earn on our products. tariffs could make our products more expensive for customers, which could make our products less competitive and reduce consumer demand. countries may also adopt other protectionist measures that could limit our ability to offer our products and services. furthermore, a large portion of our ous sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in ous markets. if we are unable to meet and manage these risks, our ous operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, which subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to sell or service our products in the markets serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. in addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them. please see our risk factor below titled we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention, and harm our business. the actions of our distributors may affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if a distributor holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance. it may be difficult, expensive, and time consuming for us to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance in such case. we offer alternative capital acquisition approaches. as a result, we are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and the risk of losses of revenue, which could result in material losses. 20 table of contents we believe customer financing through leasing is an important consideration for some of our customers and have experienced an increase in demand for customer financing. we may experience loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to the contractual lease terms. our exposure to the credit risks relating to our lease financing arrangements may increase if our customers are adversely affected by changes in healthcare laws, coverage and reimbursement, economic pressures or uncertainty, or other customer-specific factors. although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing credit risks relating to these lease financing arrangements. if the level of credit losses we experience in the future exceed our expectations, such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. certain of our leasing arrangements allow customers to cancel, return, or upgrade the systems leased prior to the end of the lease term without incurring a financial penalty. we also lease our systems to certain qualified customers where the lease payments are based on their usage of the systems. while leases and usage-based arrangements enable our customers to upgrade and get access to new technologies faster, it may also enable competitors to more easily induce customers to switch to a competitor system. if customers do not perform a sufficient number procedures on systems leased under usage-based arrangements, or return or terminate leases prematurely, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows. we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relates to revenue and operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects our foreign currency-denominated revenue. margins on ous revenue could also be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as we may not be able to raise local prices to fully offset the strengthening of the u.s. dollar. conversely, the strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, while generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings, may cause us to reduce pricing on our products in our ous markets and may cause us to incur losses on our foreign currency hedging instruments, thereby limiting the benefit that strengthened foreign currencies could have on our results of operations. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity, and expense. although we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to transactions denominated in the euro, japanese yen, korean won, british pound, and the swiss franc, and we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary, our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact caused by unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange risk. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market value of our investments. our investment portfolio includes both domestic and international investments. the credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity concerns, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, or other factors. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could fluctuate substantially. our other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of investments, impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments, changes in interest rates, increases or decreases in cash balances, volatility in foreign exchange rates, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investments may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. while we have not realized any significant losses on our cash equivalents or marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products, and our reputation may suffer. our success depends on the quality and reliability of our products. while we subject components sourced and products manufactured to stringent quality specifications and processes, our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and computer software, any of which may contain errors or exhibit failures, especially when products are first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, we and our customers have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products. although our products are subject to stringent quality 21 table of contents processes and controls, we cannot provide assurance that our products will not experience component aging, errors, or performance problems. if we experience product flaws or performance problems, any or all of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. costs associated with product flaws or performance problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention, and harm our business. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings to which we are party, including purported class actions, product liability litigation, and patent litigation, are described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. in particular, our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims, which are inherent to the medical device industry. product liability claims have been brought against us by or on behalf of individuals alleging that they have sustained personal injuries and/or death as a result of purported product defects, the alleged failure to warn, and/or the alleged inadequate training by us of physicians regarding the use of the da vinci surgical system. the individuals who have brought the product liability claims seek recovery for their alleged personal injuries and in many cases, punitive damages. current product liability claims have resulted in negative publicity regarding our company, and these and any other product liability or negligence claims or product recalls also could harm our reputation. please see our risk factor below titled negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues for additional risks related to the potential effects of negative publicity on our business. the outcome of these product liability claims and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. we currently self-insure our product liability risk and maintain third-party insurance coverage for certain other liabilities. however, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage from third-party carriers, or our self-insurance of product liability risk, would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses related to these lawsuits and proceedings or otherwise be excluded under the terms of any third-party policy. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant legal costs (including settlements, judgments, legal fees, and other related defense costs) and diversion of management attention. if we do not prevail in the purported class actions and derivative lawsuits, product liability litigation, or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. there have been articles published and reports questioning patient safety and efficacy associated with robotic-assisted surgery with the da vinci surgical system and its cost relative to other disease management methods, and the adequacy of surgeon training. negative publicity, including statements made by public officials, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. in addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, regardless of whether these claims are meritorious. the number of claims could be further increased by plaintiffs' law firms that use a wide variety of media to advertise their services and solicit clients for product liability cases against us. we are subject to significant, uninsured liabilities. for certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. for example, we self-insure our product liability risks and we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not carry insurance to cover that indemnity or the related underlying losses. we also do not carry, among other types of coverage, earthquake, and cyber insurance. 22 table of contents in addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors' and officers' insurance may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases we are self-insured completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we (or our critical suppliers) may encounter difficulties in scaling up or maintaining production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; import or export restrictions on components, materials or technology; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal, and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. in the u.s., hospitals generally bill for the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid, and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in ous markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many ous markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those in the u.s. are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled changes in healthcare legislation and policy may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. 23 table of contents if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. for example, our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural disasters or other events beyond our control could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities, and other business disruptions including, but not limited to, internet security threats, could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. for example, the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan and their aftermath created economic uncertainty and disrupted economic activities in japan, including a reduction in hospital spending. furthermore, our corporate headquarters and many of our operations, including certain of our manufacturing facilities, are located in california, which in the past has experienced both severe earthquakes and other natural disasters. we do not have multiple-site capacity for all of our operations in the event of a business disruption. furthermore, parties in our supply chain and our customers are similarly vulnerable to natural disasters or other sudden, unforeseen, and severe adverse events. a natural disaster in any of our major markets, or an unanticipated business disruption caused, for example, by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks, or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. epidemic diseases or the perception of their effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as the ebola virus, middle east respiratory syndrome, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or the h1n1 virus, could divert medical resources and priorities towards the treatment of that disease. an outbreak of a contagious disease could also negatively affect hospital admission rates. this could negatively impact the number of da vinci procedures performed and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if we do not successfully manage our collaboration arrangements, licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships with third parties, we may not realize the expected benefits from such alliances and it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows . from time to time, we enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships to complement or augment our research and development, product development, training, procedure development, and marketing efforts. for example, in 2016, we entered into an agreement to form the joint venture. in january 2019, the joint venture acquired certain assets related to the da vinci distribution business of chindex, a subsidiary of fosun pharma, which has been our distribution partner for da vinci surgical systems in china since 2011, following which the joint venture began direct distribution operations for da vinci products and services in china. there can be no assurance that we and the joint venture can successfully complete the development of the robotic-assisted catheter-based medical devices; or that we and the joint venture will successfully commercialize such products. there can also be no assurance that the joint venture will not require additional contributions to fund its business; that the joint venture will become profitable; or that the acquired chindex assets will be successfully integrated and the expected benefits realized. proposing, negotiating, and implementing collaborations, in-licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. in addition, other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology, or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. as a result, we may not identify, secure, or complete any such arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or on otherwise favorable terms, if it all. there can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these alliances. in addition, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding any collaboration or other arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our alliances may have economic or business interests that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our interests. it is possible that conflicts may arise in these relationships, such as conflicts concerning the achievement of performance milestones, or the interpretation of significant terms under any agreement, such as those related to financial obligations, termination rights or the ownership or control of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. these alliances can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of the parties involved, and we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties. 24 table of contents the alliances may involve significant expense and divert the focus or attention of our management and other key personnel. any of these relationships may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near- and long-term expenditures, or disrupt our ordinary business activities. such arrangements may also expose us to numerous known and unknown risks, including unique risks with respect to the economic, political, and regulatory environment of any foreign entities with whom we partner, including fosun pharma. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or our business may be harmed. we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands, and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products, or technologies rather than through internal development. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies, or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. an acquired company may have deficiencies in product quality, regulatory marketing authorizations, or intellectual property protections, which are not detected during due diligence activities or which are unasserted at the time of acquisition. it may be difficult, expensive, and time consuming for us to re-establish market access, regulatory compliance, or cure such deficiencies in product quality or intellectual property protection in such cases, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, or cash flows. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors, or other partners for a variety of reasons, including that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the reevaluation of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. we use estimates, make judgments, and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. as these estimates, judgments, and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time may lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes as well as the number and type (cancerous or benign) of certain da vinci procedures performed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. our estimates of surgical market sizes or the number and type of da vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations, but are used to estimate the progress of our business. estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and the number and type of da vinci procedures and the accuracy of these estimates may be impacted over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, system internet connectivity, distributor reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee, and other factors. in addition, from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and the number and type of da vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting. changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. tax rates in these jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic and/or political conditions. a number of other factors may also impact our future effective tax rate including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; 25 table of contents the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in availability of tax credits, tax holidays, and tax deductions; changes in share-based compensation; and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. we are unable to predict what changes to the tax laws of the u.s. and other jurisdictions may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect such changes would have on our business. any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations, and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process, and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast, and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. our business requires us to use and store customer, employee, and business partner personally identifiable information ( pii ). this may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. we require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. we also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. these security measures may be compromised as a result of security breaches by unauthorized persons, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. for example, our employees have received phishing emails and phone calls attempting to induce them to divulge passwords and other sensitive information. in addition, unauthorized persons may attempt to hack into our products or systems to obtain personal data relating to patients or employees, our confidential or proprietary information or confidential information we hold on behalf of third parties. if the unauthorized persons successfully hack into or interfere with our connected products or services, they may create issues with product functionality that could pose a risk of loss of data, a risk to patient safety, and a risk of product recall or field activity. we have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to data security incidents, and we make ongoing improvements to our information-sharing products in order to minimize vulnerabilities, in accordance with industry and regulatory standards. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect, we may not be able to anticipate and prevent these intrusions or mitigate them when and if they occur. we also rely on external vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. the systems of these external vendors may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security of our own systems, and we are dependent on these third parties to deploy appropriate security programs to protect their systems. while we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. we may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs, and security vulnerabilities could be significant. our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service, and harm to our business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of pii, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of our products and services could decrease. we would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 26 table of contents our business is subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and other matters relating to information collection. there are numerous state, federal and foreign laws, regulations, decisions, and directives regarding privacy and the collection, storage, transmission, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information ( pii ) and other personal, customer, or other data, the scope of which is continually evolving and subject to differing interpretations. we may be subject to significant consequences, including penalties and fines, for any failure to comply with such laws, regulations and directives. for example, as of may 25, 2018, a new privacy framework, the general data protection regulation, or the gdpr, took effect across the european economic area, or the eea. the gdpr imposes several stringent requirements for controllers and processors of personal data and will increase our obligations, including, for example, by imposing higher standards when obtaining consent from individuals to process their personal data, requiring more robust disclosures to individuals, strengthening individual data rights, shortening timelines for data breach notifications, limiting retention periods and secondary use of information, increasing requirements pertaining to health data as well as pseudonymised (i.e., key-coded) data and imposing additional obligations when we contract third-party processors in connection with the processing of personal data. the gdpr provides that eu member states may make their own further laws and regulations limiting the processing of genetic, biometric or health data, which could limit our ability to use and share personal data or could cause our costs could increase, and harm our business and financial condition. failure to comply with the requirements of gdpr and the applicable national data protection laws of the eu member states may result in fines of up to 20 million or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, and other administrative penalties. compliance with the new data protection rules imposed by gdpr may be onerous and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. in addition, recent legal developments in switzerland and europe have created complexity and compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of information from switzerland and the eu to the united states. for example, the eu-us privacy shield framework is regularly reviewed and there is currently litigation challenging the adequacy of eu-specified standard contractual clauses (another data transfer mechanism). it is uncertain whether the privacy shield framework and/or the standard contractual clauses will be invalidated by the european courts or legislature. we rely on a mixture of mechanisms to transfer personal data from our eu business to the united states, and could be impacted by changes in law as a result of a future review of these transfer mechanisms by european regulators under the gdpr, as well as current challenges to these mechanisms in the european courts. if one or more of the legal bases for transferring pii from europe to the united states is invalidated, or if we are unable to transfer pii between and among countries and regions in which we operate, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services or could adversely affect our financial results. furthermore, any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with or make effective modifications to our policies, or to comply with any federal, state or international privacy, data-retention or data-protection-related laws, regulations, orders or industry self-regulatory principles could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, a loss of customer confidence, damage to our brand and reputation and a loss of customers, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data-retention and data-protection issues, including laws or regulations mandating disclosure to domestic or international law enforcement bodies, which could adversely impact our business or our reputation with customers. for example, some countries have adopted laws mandating that some pii regarding customers in their country be maintained solely in their country. having to maintain local data centers and redesign product, service and business operations to limit pii processing to within individual countries could increase our operating costs significantly. a prolonged government shutdown may adversely affect our business. hospital, health systems, and physicians depend on a number of government agencies and services to effectively deliver healthcare to their patients. a prolonged government shutdown could impact inspections, regulatory review and certifications, grants, approvals, or cause other situations that could impede their ability to effectively deliver healthcare, including attempts to reduce payments and other reimbursements to hospitals by federal healthcare programs. these situations could adversely affect our customers' ability to perform procedures with our devices and/or their decisions to purchase additional products from us. in addition, a prolonged government shutdown may cause significant regulatory delays, and therefore, delay our efforts to seek clearances from the fda, and adversely affect business travel and import and export of products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. risks relating to our regulatory environment changes in healthcare legislation and policy may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in the u.s., there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. in march 2010, the ppaca was enacted, which made changes that have impacted and are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. 27 table of contents the ppaca contained a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansions among other things. this includes fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. for sales between january 1, 2013, and december 31, 2015, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain u.s. medical device revenues. though there were some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax did apply to all or most of our products sold within the u.s. in december 2015, the former u.s. president signed into law the appropriations act. the appropriations act included a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax such that medical device revenues in 2016 and 2017 were exempt from the excise tax. subsequent legislation was passed in january 2018 such that mdet will be delayed until january 1, 2020. the ppaca also implemented a number of medicare payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians, and other providers to improve the coordination, quality, and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models, and appropriated funding for comparative effectiveness research. the taxes imposed by the ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. since its enactment, there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ppaca, as well as efforts by the current u.s. administration to modify, repeal or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. since january 2017, the u.s. president has signed two executive orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the ppaca or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ppaca. the current u.s. administration has also announced that it will discontinue the payment of cost-sharing reduction ( csr ) payments to insurance companies until congress approves the appropriation of funds for the csr payments. the loss of the csr payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the ppaca. a bipartisan bill to appropriate funds for csr payments has been introduced in the senate, but the future of that bill is uncertain. in addition, cms has recently proposed regulations that would give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the ppaca for plans sold through such marketplaces. because of the 2017 tax act, the ppaca's individual mandate penalty for not having health insurance coverage will be eliminated starting in 2019. it is unclear what impact the elimination of the individual mandate penalty will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. further, each chamber of congress has put forth multiple bills designed to repeal or repeal and replace portions of the ppaca. although the majority of these measures have not been enacted by congress to date, congress will likely continue to consider other legislation to repeal or repeal and replace elements of the ppaca. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. these changes included aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013, and will remain in effect through 2027 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. macra repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. it is unclear what impact new quality and payment programs, such as macra, may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. individual states in the u.s. have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, and discounts, and require marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures. we expect additional state and federal health care reform measures to be adopted in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our customers. any changes of, or uncertainty with respect to future reimbursement rates, or changes in hospital admission rates could impact our customers' demand for our products and services, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. further, the federal, state and local governments, medicare, medicaid, managed care organizations, and foreign governments have in the past considered, are currently considering, and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the u.s. or other countries, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes, competitive bidding or tender processes for certain products and services, and other changes intended to reduce expenditures along with uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. we are unable to predict whether other healthcare policies, including policies stemming from legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect such policies would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. 28 table of contents we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act requires us to track and disclose the source of any tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten used in manufacturing which may originate in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining regions (so called conflict minerals ). these metals are central to the technology industry and are present in some of our products as component parts. in most cases no acceptable alternative material exists which has the necessary properties. because it is not possible to determine the source of the metals by analysis, we must obtain a good faith description of the source of the intermediate components and raw materials from parties in our supply chain. the components that incorporate those metals may originate from many sources and we purchase fabricated products from manufacturers who may have a long and difficult-to-trace supply chain. as the spot price of these materials varies, producers of the metal intermediates can be expected to change the mix of sources used. accordingly, components and assemblies we buy may have a mix of sources as their origin. we are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. there can be no assurance we can obtain this information accurately or reliably, or at all, from intermediate producers who may be unwilling or unable to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. in addition, these metals are subject to price fluctuations and shortages which can affect our ability to obtain the manufactured materials we rely on at favorable terms or from consistent sources. these changes could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture and market our devices and products. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, prohibit payments, or other remuneration that could be considered to induce hospitals, physicians, or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order, of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid and any other third-party payor programs. further, the ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. the federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalties laws, including the federal civil false claims act, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other federal healthcare programs that are false or fraudulent. although we would not submit claims directly to government payors, manufacturers can be held liable under the federal false claim act if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, which created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit, among other things, executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters. similar to the federal anti-kickback statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. these laws may affect our sales, marketing, and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians, or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal fines and penalties, which can be substantial and include monetary damages and penalties, imprisonment, and exclusion from government healthcare programs for non-compliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. 29 table of contents the federal physicians payments sunshine act imposes reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to physicians (including family members), certain other healthcare providers and teaching hospitals. such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, as well as any transfers of value made to such physician owners and investors, during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $165,786 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1.105 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. device manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year. in addition, there has been increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. certain states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices, and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians or marketing expenditures and pricing information. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance of one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties. compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our ous operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the u.s. and/or abroad. these numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. our operations are subject to certain antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the u.s. and the eu. these laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. if any of our commercial agreements or practices are found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. we may also be subject to third-party claims for damages. further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. if we are unable to enforce our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected. we are also subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving labor and employment. such claims, suits, and government investigations are inherently uncertain. regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory review process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory authorizations, we will not be able to provide our products in the u.s. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s. by the fda. the fda regulates the development and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, sales, distribution, and post-market support and medical device reporting in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market products for use in the u.s., we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food drug and cosmetic act ( ffdca ). clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered ( pre-amendment ) status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application ( pma ) for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the u.s. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. a pma is typically a much more complex, lengthy and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. in some cases such studies may be requested for a 510(k) as well. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude the sale of new products in the u.s. moreover, we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, in which case the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations 30 table of contents imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, the fda or other regulatory agencies may change their policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis. we may be found non-compliant as a result of future changes in, or interpretations of, regulations by the fda or other regulatory agencies. we also cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation, administrative, or executive action. for example, certain policies of the current u.s. administration may impact our business and industry. namely, the current u.s. administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of executive orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, the fda's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications. it is difficult to predict how these requirements will be implemented, and the extent to which they will impact the fda's ability to exercise its regulatory authority. if these executive actions impose constraints on fda's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a medical device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board ( irb ) approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption ( ide ) application. many of our products to date have been or would be considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the u.s. for any new devices we intend to market in the u.s. in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to conduct studies which comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certainty that clinical trials will meet desired endpoints, produce meaningful or useful data and be free of unexpected adverse effects, or that the fda will accept the validity of foreign clinical study data cannot be assured, and such uncertainty could preclude or delay market clearance or authorizations resulting in significant financial costs and reduced revenue. in addition, some products may be regulated by the fda as drugs, biologics, or combination devices which carry still greater requirements for clinical trials, regulatory submissions, and approvals. complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous quality and post-market regulatory requirements apply, including the following: continued compliance to the qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation, and other quality assurance procedures during the development and manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda's general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; stringent complaint reporting and medical device reporting ( mdr ) regulations, which requires that manufacturers keep detailed records of investigations or complaints against their devices and to report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; adequate use of the corrective and preventive actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest same; and the reporting of corrections and removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from inspectional observations (form fda 483) to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products. the fda has in the past issued and could in the future issue warning letters or other communications to us. if we fail to satisfy or remediate the matters discussed in any such warning letters or communications, the fda could take further enforcement action, including prohibiting the sale or marketing of the affected product. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse 31 table of contents effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the receipt of a warning letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain fda issued certificates to foreign government ( cfgs ) used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries. the fda also strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion, and other activities relating to the marketing of our products. medical devices may be promoted only for their cleared or approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the cleared or approved label. it is possible that federal or state enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under a variety of statutory authorities, including under the ffdca as well as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. in addition, any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance. we have created labeling, advertising, and user training for the da vinci surgical system to describe specific surgical procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) indications for use stated in our 510(k) clearances. although we have relied on expert in-house and external staff, consultants and advisors, some of whom were formerly employed by fda and familiar with fda perspective, we cannot provide assurance that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. from time to time we modify our products, including the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system, after we obtain 510(k) clearance from the fda for the devices in ways that we do not believe require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot provide assurance that the fda would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. if the fda disagrees with our assessments that a new 510(k) clearance was not required prior to commercializing the devices with these changes or modifications, then the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. we have a wholly owned manufacturing facility located in mexicali, mexico which manufactures reusable and disposable surgical instruments. this facility is registered with the fda as well as mexican authorities. the facility is operated under u.s. and international quality system regulations including those applicable to canada, the european union, and japan among others. our wholly owned manufacturing facility in mexicali, mexico has an fda establishment registration but has not been inspected by the fda to date. if the fda were to identify non-conformances in our product documentation or quality system compliance, it could hold indefinitely the importation of instruments at the border which would deprive us of the ability to sell and supply the majority of our customers until the fda requirements have been satisfied. similar supply disruptions could occur if key suppliers outside of the u.s. were to encounter non-conformances with their documentation or quality system compliance. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to provide our products in foreign countries. to be able to provide our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries which may differ substantially from those of the u.s. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or to obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. in particular, if the fda refuses to provide cfgs our ability to register products or renew such registrations may be delayed or denied. the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark, for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec), as amended, to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the authorization to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes and products meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and have maintained this authorization continuously since that time. from time to time we seek the authorization to affix the ce mark to new or modified products. subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our notified body, presafe. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we are subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark authorizations we have already obtained including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives. we cannot be certain we will be able to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu and many affiliated countries that accept the ce mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some member 32 table of contents states of the eu have additional requirements for registration and notification which may add to the time and effort to obtain market access. in addition, the regulations applied to end users of our products may increase over time, forcing us to provide additional solutions to regulations which do not apply directly to us, but which apply indirectly as they may limit our customers' ability to use our products. in may 2017, the medical device regulation was implemented to replace the medical device directive (93/42/eec), as amended. the medical device regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants notified bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification, or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. to date, we received approvals from the japanese ministry of health, labor and welfare ( mhlw ) for our da vinci s, si, xi, and x surgical systems and various associated instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci procedures. we may seek additional approvals for other products and/or indications; however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, because not all of our instruments have received product approvals, and reimbursement is an additional process to generate market acceptance, it is possible that procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. in april 2012 and april 2016, we have received reimbursement approval for prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy, respectively. an additional 12 procedures were granted reimbursement for japan in april 2018, including gastrectomy, anterior resection, lobectomy and hysterectomy, for both malignant and benign conditions. these additional 12 reimbursed procedures have varying levels of conventional laparoscopic penetration and will be reimbursed at rates equal to the conventional laparoscopic procedures. given the reimbursement level and laparoscopic penetration for these procedures, there can be no assurance that adoption will occur or, that the adoption pace for these procedures will be similar to any other da vinci procedure. there are multiple pathways to obtain reimbursement for procedures including those that require in-country clinical data and which are considered for reimbursed status in april of even numbered years. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. our capital sales in china are subject to importation authorizations and purchasing tender processes. in october 2018, the china national health commission published on its official website the quota for major medical equipment to be imported and sold in china through 2020. the government will allow the sale of 154 new surgical robots into china, which could include da vinci surgical systems. future system sales and our ability to grow future procedure volumes are dependent on the completion of these purchasing tender authorizations. the timing and magnitude of these future authorizations, which may determine our system placements in future years, is not certain and we expect to continue to experience variability in the timing of capital sales in china. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state, or other manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, import/export of our products, and/or recall some products which would result in significant product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities, and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the fda and other regulatory agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr and other regulatory requirements. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization ( iso ) quality system standards as well as european directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in the eu. in addition, many countries such as canada and japan have very specific additional regulatory requirements for quality assurance and manufacturing. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements, as well as iso or other regulatory standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we continue to be subject to fda and certain other inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. we started participating in the medical device single audit program ( mdsap ), which allows an mdsap-recognized auditing organization to conduct a single regulatory audit of a medical device manufacturer that evaluates the company's quality system to confirm compliance with the requirements of multiple regulatory jurisdictions including the us, japan, brazil, australia, and canada. the information will be shared and reviewed amongst all the regulatory authorities in the mdsap who may or may not determine that additional information or auditing is required. our sunnyvale, california facility is licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we have been subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services food and drug branch and, if we are unable to maintain 33 table of contents this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship some products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in 2012 the state of california announced suspension of routine inspections but this policy could be modified or inspections could be resumed for specific circumstances. in addition, both our sunnyvale, california and mexicali, mexico facilities are subject to periodic inspections by other regulatory bodies, including third-party auditors on behalf of national regulatory authorities. compliance with multiple regulatory standards is complex, difficult and costly to maintain, and material deficiencies could result in significant limitations on our ability to manufacture, transport, and sell our products in one or more countries. if hospitals and other surgery facilities do not continue to meet federal, state, or other regulatory standards, they may be required to temporarily cease all or part of their da vinci utilization. our global customers are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. our customers are required to comply with applicable local and international regulations, including with respect to the reprocessing of da vinci instruments and accessories. hospitals may not follow cleaning and sterilization instructions properly, or equipment used for cleaning and sterilization may malfunction or be used improperly. if our customers deviate from cleaning and sterilization instructions, regulatory authorities may require them to suspend use of da vinci surgical systems. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to fully protect and successfully defend our intellectual property from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success depends in part on obtaining patent protection for the proprietary technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents against infringing products and/or services in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent oppositions, reviews, or reexaminations. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our patent rights. we do not know whether we will be successful in obtaining the desired patent protection for our new proprietary technologies, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable when challenged. the success of defending our proprietary rights can be highly uncertain because it involves complex and often evolving legal issues and procedures that are dependent on particular facts of each case. in addition to patents, we also rely on other intellectual property rights such as trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws to protect proprietary technologies. we further utilize nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions as well as technical measures to protect our proprietary technologies. nevertheless, these measures may be inadequate in protecting our technologies. if these measures are proved to be inadequate in protecting our technologies, our competitive advantages may be reduced. moreover, we may not have adequate remedies for potential breaches by employees, consultants, and others who participate in developing our proprietary technologies against their agreements with us regarding intellectual property. as a result, our trade secrets may be lost. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technologies without infringing any of our intellectual property which would harm our ability to compete in the market. as foreign markets become more significant in revenue for us, our foreign operations and strategic alliances with foreign entities will likely increase. our exposure to risks associated with these operations requires us to increase our reliance on protecting our intellectual property against infringing products and/or services in markets outside the u.s. the laws and judicial systems in these countries may introduce yet another level of uncertainty to our effort to obtain the desired protection as well as defending our rights. others may be successful in asserting that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to pay substantial damages and/or enjoin us from commercializing our products. as we continue to introduce and commercialize new products and technologies, there may be u.s. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our products. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot be certain that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition, other parties may have filed or will file patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot be certain that patents issuing from our own patent application covering our products will have a priority date over any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party. the medical device industry has experienced extensive intellectual property litigation and administrative proceedings. if third parties assert infringement claims or institute administrative proceedings against us, our technical and management personnel will 34 table of contents need to spend time and effort and we will incur large expenses in defending these attacks. we cannot be certain that we will prevail in infringement, invalidity or unenforceability claims against us. if plaintiffs in patent administrative proceedings are successful, our patent portfolio may be adversely affected. if plaintiffs in any patent action are successful, we may be enjoined from selling our products, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, or we may be required to obtain a license that requires us to pay substantial royalties. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. there is no assurance that we can obtain licenses on acceptable terms or at all. the license agreements we have entered into with several industry partners may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the failure to obtain or maintain the licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts' or investors' expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to maintain or grow our revenue. our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products achieve and maintain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third-party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is possible that in future periods our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock and the value of your investment will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and may fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2016, it reached a high of $241.61 and a low of $169.09; during fiscal 2017, it reached a high of $403.70 and a low of $209.83; and during fiscal 2018, it reached a high of $574.74 and a low of $375.25. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; variations in operating results and financial guidance; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals and enforcement actions; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts; 35 table of contents changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; litigation; media coverage, whether accurate or inaccurate, fair or misleading; political uncertainties; short sales on shares of our common stock, or other activities by short sellers; and our stock repurchase program. in addition, stock markets generally have experienced, and in the future may experience significant price and volume volatility. this volatility has a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. further, the securities of many medical device companies, including us, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, it may have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange risk. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market value of our investments. our investment portfolio includes both domestic and international investments. the credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity concerns, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, or other factors. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could fluctuate substantially. our other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of investments, impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments, changes in interest rates, increases or decreases in cash balances, volatility in foreign exchange rates, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investments may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. while we have not realized any significant losses on our cash equivalents or marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products, and our reputation may suffer. our success depends on the quality and reliability of our products. while we subject components sourced and products manufactured to stringent quality specifications and processes, our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and computer software, any of which may contain errors or exhibit failures, especially when products are first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, we and our customers have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products. although our products are subject to stringent quality 21 table of contents processes and controls, we cannot provide assurance that our products will not experience component aging, errors, or performance problems. if we experience product flaws or performance problems, any or all of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. costs associated with product flaws or performance problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention, and harm our business. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings to which we are party, including purported class actions, product liability litigation, and patent litigation, are described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. consolidated cash flow data years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 1,169.6 $ 1,143.9 $ 1,087.0 investing activities (1,049.6 ) 378.7 (1,279.4 ) financing activities 126.3 (1,913.1 ) 514.4 effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (0.1 ) 2.1 net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 246.2 $ (388.4 ) $ 322.0 operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2018 , cash provided by our operating activities of $1,169.6 million exceeded our net income of $1,125.0 million due to non-cash charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities as outlined below: 1. our net income included non-cash charges: share-based compensation of $ 261.2 million ; depreciation and loss on disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $ 108.6 million ; deferred income taxes of $31.9 million ; amortization of intangible assets of $ 14.2 million ; amortization of contract acquisition asset of $10.6 million ; and investment related non-cash charges of $ 1.8 million . 2. changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in $383.7 million of cash used in operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2018. operating assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses and other assets, accrued compensation and employee benefits, deferred revenue, and other accrued liabilities. inventory, including the transfer of equipment from inventory to property, plant, and equipment, increased by $279.0 million primarily due to more systems under operating lease arrangements and an increase in inventory to meet higher sales volumes and add safety stock to mitigate possible trade and supplier matters. accounts receivable increased by $161.3 million primarily due to higher customer billings and timing of billings and collections. prepaid expenses and other assets increased by $77.7 million . the unfavorable impact of these items on cash used by operating activities was partly offset by a $54.3 million increase in deferred revenue, a $37.1 million increase in other accrued liabilities, and a $26.2 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits. for the year ended december 31, 2017, cash provided by our operating activities of $1,143.9 million exceeded our net income of $670.9 million due to non-cash charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities as outlined below: 1. our net income included non-cash charges, including share-based compensation of $209.1 million, depreciation and loss of disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $86.2 million, deferred income taxes of $60.2 million, investment related non-cash charges of $21.2 million, and amortization of intangible assets of $12.9 million. 54 table of contents 2. changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in $73.5 million of cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2017. operating assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses and other assets, deferred revenue, and other accrued liabilities. other accrued liabilities increased by $219.4 million, primarily due to an increase in income tax payable as a result of the 2017 tax act. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service revenue that is being recognized as revenue over the service contract period, increased by $43.7 million primarily due to the higher number of installed systems for which service contracts existed. accrued compensation and employee benefits increased by $31.2 million. accounts payable increased by $14.0 million. the favorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by an increase of $115.5 million in inventory, including the transfer of equipment from inventory to property, plant, and equipment; an increase of $81.4 million in accounts receivable; and an increase of $38.9 million in prepaids and other assets. the increase in accounts receivable was primarily driven by higher revenue and timing of collections. the increase in prepaids and other assets was primarily driven by higher lease receivable balances resulting from sales-type lease arrangement transactions entered into during the year ended december 31, 2017. for the year ended december 31, 2016, cash provided by our operating activities of $1,087.0 million exceeded our net income of $735.9 million primarily due certain to non-cash charges as outlined below: 1. our net income included non-cash charges including in the form of share-based compensation of $177.6 million; depreciation and loss of disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $73.9 million; investment related non-cash charges of $35.9 million; deferred income tax of $20.9 million; and amortization of intangible assets of $18.2 million. 2. the non-cash charges outlined above were partly offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in $17.7 million of cash used by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2016. operating assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses, deferred revenue, and other accrued liabilities. inventory, including the transfer of equipment from inventory to property, plant and equipment, increased by $46.7 million. accounts receivable increased $34.2 million primarily driven by higher revenue and timing of collections. prepaids and other assets increased $39.2 million primarily driven by higher lease receivable balances resulting from sales-type lease arrangement transactions entered into during year ended december 31, 2016. the unfavorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partly offset by a $53.7 million increase in other liabilities, primarily due to higher income tax payable, a $14.1 million increase in deferred revenue, an $18.7 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits, and a $15.9 million increase in accounts payable. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service revenue that is being recognized as revenue over the service contract period, increased primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts existed. investing activities net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2018 , consisted of purchases of investments (net of the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments) of $774.3 million , the purchases of property, plant, and equipment of $187.4 million , and acquisition of businesses for $87.9 million . net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2017, consisted of proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments (net of purchases of investments) of $569.4 million partly offset by purchases of property, plant, and equipment of $190.7 million. net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016, consisted of purchases of investments (net of the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments) of $1.2 billion and purchases of property, plant, and equipment for $53.9 million. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s. treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and tax exempt municipal notes, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, non-u.s. government agency securities, cash deposits, and money market funds. financing activities net cash provided by financing activities during 2018 primarily consisted of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $ 236.6 million , partly offset by taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlement of vested employee equity awards of $ 120.0 million . net cash used in financing activities during 2017 primarily consisted of $2,274.0 million related to an accelerated share buyback program executed and settled during 2017 and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlement of vested employee equity awards of $56.6 million. these uses were partly offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $415.5 million. net cash provided by financing activities in 2016 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $580.9 million, partly offset by $42.5 million used for the repurchase of 0.2 million shares of our common 55 table of contents stock through open market transactions and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlement of vested employee equity awards of $24.0 million. our business has not been capital intensive. however, with the growth of our business and our investments in property and facilities and in manufacturing automation, capital investments have increased. we expect capital investments to exceed $250 million in each of the next two years. we intend to fund these needs with cash generated from operations. our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products, and other factors. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products. we have made substantial investments in our commercial operations, product development activities, facilities, and intellectual property. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements beyond one year and for the foreseeable future. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of december 31, 2018 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years operating leases $ 95.4 $ 15.1 $ 27.2 $ 22.2 $ 30.9 purchase commitments and obligations 711.2 704.7 4.6 1.0 0.9 other 246.7 21.4 42.9 61.7 120.7 total $ 1,053.3 $ 741.2 $ 74.7 $ 84.9 $ 152.5 operating leases. we lease spaces for operations in the u.s. as well as in japan, south korea, mexico, and other foreign countries. we also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our non-cancellable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and development arrangements. payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and have not been included in the table above. other. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. as of december 31, 2018 , our obligation associated with the deemed repatriation toll charge is $246.7 million , which is expected to be paid in installments. off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2018 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ), which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries, u.s. government agencies, corporate debt, cash deposits, money market funds, commercial paper, non-u.s. government agency securities, and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds. the securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. the weighted average duration of our portfolio as of december 31, 2018 , was approximately 0.7 years. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $8.5 million as of december 31, 2018 . we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. the uncertain financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we generally sell our products and services in local currencies where we have direct distribution channels. we operate in a number of markets on a direct sales basis and incur operating expenses in local currencies. we also purchase certain product components from non-u.s. suppliers in local currency. as a result, because a portion of our operations consist of sales activities outside of the u.s., we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s. dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and foreign currency bank balances. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , sales denominated in foreign currencies were approximately 20% of total revenue. the objective of our hedging program is to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , our revenue would have decreased by approximately $42.0 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate strengthened by 10%. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies to which we have exposure, after considering foreign currency hedges and offsetting positions as of december 31, 2018 , would have resulted in approximately $0.2 million increase in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. to mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. we monitor ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust our exposure to various counterparties. although we sell to distributors outside of the u.s. in u.s. dollars, strengthening of the dollar can impact our distributors' margins and could impact the end customers' ability to purchase our product if our distributors seek to recover the impact of the change in the dollar by increasing product and service prices. less than 10% of our revenue is conducted through distributors outside the u.s. strengthening of the dollar relative to non-u.s. currencies could have an adverse impact on our business. our operations outside of the u.s. are subject to risks typical of operations outside of the u.s. including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors. our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 4 table of contents part i item 1. business in this report, intuitive surgical, intuitive, the company, we, us, and our refer to intuitive surgical, inc. and its wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries. intuitive , intuitive surgical , da vinci , da vinci , da vinci hd surgical system , da vinci si , da vinci si hd surgical system , da vinci xi , da vinci sp , endowrist , firefly , insite , da vinci connect , intuitive surgical ecosystem , da vinci x , sureform tm , ion tm , iris , and synchroseal tm are trademarks or registered trademarks of the company. company background intuitive is committed to advancing patient care in surgery and other acute medical interventions. the company is focused on innovating to enable physicians and healthcare providers to improve the quality of and access to minimally invasive care. we believe that minimally invasive care is life-enhancing care. intuitive brings more than two decades of leadership in robotic-assisted surgical technology and solutions to its offerings. while surgery and acute interventions have improved significantly in the past decades, there remains a significant need for better outcomes and decreased variability of these outcomes across care teams. the current healthcare environment is exerting a large and increasing burden on critical resources, including the professionals who staff care teams: surgeons, anesthesiologists, nurses, and other staff. at the same time, governments are straining to cover the healthcare needs of their populations and are demanding lower total cost per patient to treat disease. in the face of these challenges, we believe scientific, process, and technological advances in biology, computing, imaging, algorithms, and robotics offer the promise of new methods to solve old and difficult problems. we address these needs by focusing on the quadruple aim. first, we focus on products and services that can improve outcomes and decrease variability in the hands of care teams. second, we seek to improve the patient experience by minimizing disruption to lives and creating greater predictability for the treatment experience. third, we seek to improve care team satisfaction by creating products and services that are dependable, smart, and optimized for the care environment in which they are used. finally, we seek to lower the total cost to treat per patient episode when compared with existing treatment alternatives, providing a return on investment for hospitals and healthcare systems and value for payers. with the aim of entering the body less invasively, seeing anatomy more clearly, interacting with tissue more precisely, and enabling surgical skill, intuitive launched its first da vinci surgical system in 1999. in 2000, it was cleared by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) for general laparoscopic surgery. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable complex surgery using a minimally invasive approach. it consists of an ergonomic surgeon console or consoles, a patient-side cart with interactive arm or arms, a high-performance vision system, and proprietary instruments and accessories. surgeons using the da vinci system operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a three-dimensional, high definition ( 3dhd ) image of the surgical field. this immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. while seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the open surgery approach. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremors inherent in a surgeon's hands. in designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy and safe to use. in 2019, our ion endoluminal system was cleared by the fda and enables minimally invasive biopsies in the lung. our ion system is a flexible, robotic-assisted, catheter-based platform that utilizes instruments and accessories, which extends our commercial offering beyond surgery into diagnostic procedures with this first application. our da vinci surgical systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons: immersive 3dhd visualization. our vision system includes a 3dhd endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. the da vinci surgical system provides visualization of the target anatomy with natural depth-of-field and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. with our firefly fluorescence imaging technology, surgeons can use our specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts beneath tissue surfaces in real-time. precise and tremor-free endoscope control. our imaging system also incorporates our proprietary camera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom, and rotate his or her field of vision. surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left, and right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image. advanced instruments. we offer a comprehensive suite of stapling, energy, and core instrumentation for our surgical systems. most of our proprietary instruments feature endowrist technology, incorporating wrist joints. inspired by the human hand, our wristed instruments enable surgeons to orient the instruments carefully relative to the tissue and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery. 5 table of contents intuitive instrument movements. our technology is designed to transform the surgeon's natural hand movements outside of the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient's body. for example, with the da vinci surgical system, a hand movement to the right outside of the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. in contrast, conventional minimally invasive surgery ( mis ) instruments are long, rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. in conventional mis, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon's hand and surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to compensate for the direction reversal by the pivot. scaled, tremor filtered instrument movement. with our technology, a surgeon can also use motion scaling, a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient's body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient's body. motion scaling is designed to allow precision and control for delicate tasks. in addition, our technology filters the tremor inherent in a surgeon's hands. improved surgeon ergonomics. the da vinci surgical system is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. the da vinci surgical system's design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon's console. because the da vinci surgical system's robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue. multi-specialty surgical platform. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures within our targeted gynecologic, urologic, general surgery, cardiothoracic, and head and neck specialties. to date, surgeons have used the da vinci surgical system to perform dozens of different types of surgical procedures. while we do not expect all of these different types of procedures to become widely adopted, they demonstrate the flexibility of the da vinci surgical system. advanced training tools. training technologies include our simulation program, which provides for independent da vinci skills development through interactive virtual reality ( vr ) exercises, and our telementoring program, which provides real-time, surgeon-to-surgeon learning and collaboration during robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system. products da vinci surgical systems intuitive's primary platform for robotic-assisted surgery is our family of da vinci surgical systems. we have commercialized the following four generational platforms of da vinci surgical systems: our fourth generation da vinci x, da vinci xi, and da vinci sp surgical systems, our third generation da vinci si surgical system, our second generation da vinci surgical system, and our first generation da vinci standard surgical system. da vinci surgical systems are comprised of the following components: surgeon's console . the da vinci surgical system allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic console viewing a 3d image of the surgical field. the surgeon's fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with the surgeon's hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. using electronic hardware, software, algorithms, and mechanics, our technology translates the surgeon's hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of the da vinci instruments positioned inside the patient. on our current systems (da vinci x , da vinci xi , and da vinci si), a second surgeon's console may be used in two ways: to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or to act as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. with the da vinci x , da vinci xi , and da vinci si, a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of the da vinci instruments during the surgery. in addition, surgeons can control 3d virtual pointers to augment the dual-surgeon experience. patient-side cart . the patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the patient. up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned, as appropriate, and then locked into place. at least two arms hold surgical instruments, one representing the surgeon's left hand and one representing the surgeon's right hand. a third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom, and rotate the field of vision. a fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a third instrument to perform additional tasks. the fourth instrument arm is a standard, integrated feature on the da vinci x, xi, and si surgical systems. our da vinci sp surgical system includes a single arm with three, multi-jointed, wristed instruments and the first da vinci fully wristed, 3dhd camera. the instruments and the camera all emerge through a single cannula and are triangulated around the target anatomy to avoid external instrument collisions that can occur in narrow surgical workspaces. 3dhd vision system. our vision system includes our insite 3d endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. the resulting 3dhd image has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker, and low cross fading. a digital zoom feature in the 3dhd vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and 6 table of contents thereby reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. the 3dhd vision system is a standard, integrated feature on the da vinci x , xi , sp, si , and surgical systems. da vinci skills simulator. the skills simulator is a practice tool that gives a user the opportunity to practice their skills and gain familiarity with the surgeon console controls. the skills simulator incorporates 3d, physics-based computer simulation technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment. the user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. upon completion of a skills exercise, the skills simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. the skills simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for the da vinci x, xi, and sp surgical systems. da vinci xi integrated table motion . integrated table motion coordinates the movements of the da vinci robot arms with an advanced operating room table, the trusystem 7000dv sold by trumpf medical tm , to enable managing the patient's position in real-time while the da vinci surgical robotic arms remain docked. this gives operating room teams the capability to optimally position the operating table during da vinci surgical system procedures. integrated table motion enables surgeons to maximize reach, facilitate access, and choose the angle of approach to target anatomy, as well as reposition the table during the procedure to enhance anesthesiologists' management of the patient. firefly fluorescence imaging . firefly is a standard feature of the da vinci x and xi surgical systems and is available on our da vinci si surgical system. this imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da vinci camera head, endoscope, and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy. firefly is typically used in the categories of urology, gynecology, and general surgery. instruments and accessories da vinci instruments . we manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate endowrist technology with wristed joints for natural dexterity and tips customized for various surgical procedures. da vinci instruments are offered in a variety of diameters, of which 8mm and 12mm diameter sizes are the most commonly sold. various da vinci instrument tips include forceps, scissors, electrocautery tools, scalpels, and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon from open surgery and conventional mis. a variety of instruments may be selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. most instruments are sterilizable at the hospital, while others are provided sterile, and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. a programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the da vinci system and instruments work together. in addition, the chip will generally not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. da vinci stapling . the endowrist stapler is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection, and/or creation of anastomoses. this instrument enables operators to precisely position and fire the stapler. we market four staplers available with the da vinci x and xi surgical systems: the endowrist stapler 30 and 45 and the sureform 45 and 60, where the numeric designation indicates the length of the staple line. the endowrist stapler 45 is used in general, gynecologic, thoracic, and urologic surgery. the endowrist stapler 30 is intended to deliver particular utility with fine tissue interaction in lobectomy and other thoracic procedures. the sureform 60 is a single-use, fully wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection, and/or creation of anastomoses, with particular utility in bariatric procedures. the sureform 45 is intended to deliver particular utility in thoracic procedures. we market five stapler reloads: gray (2.0 mm), white (2.5 mm), blue (3.5 mm), green (4.3 mm), and black (4.6 mm). not all reloads are available for use on all staplers. not all staplers or reloads are available in all countries. da vinci energy . the endowrist one vessel sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. this instrument enables surgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of robotic-assisted surgery. this instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures. the da vinci vessel sealer extend is our newest instrument in the vessel sealing family of products. the da vinci vessel sealer extend is a single-use, fully wristed bipolar electrosurgical instrument compatible with our fourth generation multiport systems. it is intended for grasping and blunt dissection of tissue and for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. accessory products . we sell various accessory products, which are used in conjunction with the da vinci surgical system as surgical procedures are performed. accessory products include sterile drapes used to help ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products such as replacement 3d stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other items that facilitate use of the da vinci surgical system. 7 table of contents ion endoluminal system our ion endoluminal system extends our commercial offerings beyond surgery into diagnostic procedures with its first application. the ion system is our flexible, robotic-assisted, catheter-based platform designed to navigate through very small lung airways to reach peripheral nodules for biopsies. the ion system uses an ultra-thin articulating robotic catheter that can move 180 degrees in all directions. the outer diameter of the catheter is 3.5mm, which allows physicians to navigate through small and tortuous airways to reach nodules in most airway segments within the lung. the ion system's flexible biopsy needle can also pass through very tight bends via ion's catheter to collect tissue in the peripheral lung. the catheter's 2mm working channel can also accommodate other biopsy tools, such as biopsy forceps or cytology brushes, if necessary. business strategy our goal is to fundamentally improve surgery and other acute interventions by enabling physicians and hospitals to improve outcomes for their patients, improve their patient's and the care team's experience, and lower the total cost to treat per patient episode. through the use of smart, connected systems, robotic technologies, advanced imaging, and informatics, our objective is to create value for patients, surgeons, and hospitals as summarized below: patient value. we believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as: patient value = procedure efficacy/invasiveness . we define procedure efficacy as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness as a measure of patient pain and disruption of regular activities. when the patient value of a da vinci procedure is greater than that of alternative treatment options, patients may benefit from seeking out surgeons and hospitals that offer that da vinci surgery, which could potentially result in a local market share shift. adoption of da vinci procedures occurs procedure by procedure and market by market and is driven by the relative patient value and the total treatment costs of da vinci procedures as compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state or condition. we believe that most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. our goal is to provide products to surgeons who, in turn, provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options. surgeon value. we offer surgeons and their operating room staff training on the technical use of our products. we provide an ergonomic platform for surgeons to perform their procedures. we seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy-to-use products. hospital value. we assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value using da vinci products, thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced lengths of patient stay. we believe robotic-assisted surgery with the da vinci surgical system is a cost effective approach to many surgeries as compared to alternative treatment options, as recognized in many published studies. clinical applications we are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and applications for robotic-assisted surgery with the da vinci surgical system and minimally invasive biopsies with the ion endoluminal system an important part of our creative process. we primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value, surgeon value, and hospital value. we currently focus on five surgical specialties: gynecologic surgery, urologic surgery, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. key procedures that we are focused on include da vinci hysterectomy ( dvh ), da vinci prostatectomy ( dvp ), da vinci for hernia repair, da vinci for colon and rectal procedures, da vinci for partial nephrectomy, da vinci for sacrocolpopexy, da vinci for lobectomy, and da vinci for transoral robotic surgery. we also focus on minimally invasive biopsies in the lung. representative surgical applications are described below. gynecologic surgery hysterectomy. removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and is performed for a variety of underlying benign and cancerous conditions. hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy) or mis techniques, which include vaginal, laparoscopic, and robotic approaches. prior to the clearance of the da vinci surgical system for use in gynecological procedures in 2005, the majority of hysterectomies performed were open surgeries. we believe that robotic-assisted surgery with the da vinci surgical system provides patients the opportunity to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an alternative to an open hysterectomy. sacrocolpopexy. the abdominal (open) sacrocolpopexy is one of the operations performed to treat vaginal vault prolapse. sacrocolpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). a sacrocolpopexy can be performed using a conventional laparoscopic technique; however, it is generally described as difficult and cumbersome to perform. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a larger number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of sacrocolpopexy patients. 8 table of contents urologic surgery prostatectomy. radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. the standard approach to removal of the prostate was via an open surgical procedure. the conventional laparoscopic approach is an option, but it is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. the da vinci surgical system has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique. partial nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor). partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. excluding robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy, and hand-assisted laparoscopy, which is a hybrid of the open and laparoscopic techniques. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system's capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients. treatment guidelines for patients with localized renal cancer recommend partial nephrectomy due to the benefits that nephron-sparing surgery has in long-term patient outcomes. published clinical literature has shown that the presence of a da vinci surgical system is associated with a higher-proportion of patients receiving a guideline-recommended partial nephrectomy. general surgery hernia repair. a hernia occurs when an organ or other tissue squeezes through a weak spot in a surrounding muscle or connective tissue. during a hernia repair surgery, the weakened tissue is secured and defects are repaired. common types of hernia are ventral and inguinal. ventral, or abdominal hernia, may occur through a scar after surgery in the abdomen. inguinal hernia is a bulge in the groin and is more common in men. hernia repair can be performed using traditional open surgery or mis. there is a wide-range of complexity in hernia repair surgeries and varying surgeon opinion regarding optimal surgical approach. the benefits of minimally invasive and robotic-assisted hernia repair surgery vary by patient. colorectal surgery. these procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular the rectum or colon. common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection, and abdominoperineal resection. surgeons have reported that the use of robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system and our latest technologies, such as the da vinci xi surgical system, endowrist stapler, and endowrist vessel sealer, have enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients. cholecystectomy. cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of the gall bladder, is a commonly performed general surgery procedure. cholecystectomy is the primary method for the treatment of gallstones and other gall bladder diseases. most cholecystectomies are performed using multi-port mis techniques, although some surgeons choose to perform cholecystectomy using manual single-port instrumentation. firefly technology can be used to visualize biliary anatomy in three dimensions beneath the tissue surfaces during multi-port da vinci cholecystectomies. bariatric surgery . a body of literature points to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its secondary effects, such as diabetes. sleeve gastrectomy and roux-en-y gastric bypass ( rygb ) are commonly performed surgical procedures for morbid obesity in the u.s. the body habitus of morbidly obese patients can make laparoscopic surgery physically challenging for the surgeon, and certain surgeons have found value in using the da vinci surgical system to improve upon the ergonomics when performing mis in morbidly obese patients. in addition, rygb can be a technically challenging procedure due to the suturing, stapling, and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. surgeons using the da vinci surgical system have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to laparoscopic rygb. also, we believe sureform 60 may have particular utility in bariatric procedures. cardiothoracic surgery thoracic surgery. conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision, and esophagectomy. many thoracic procedures remain open procedures. surgeons have reported that the use of robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients and improved clinical outcomes compared to open and video-assisted thoracic surgery in published single-center, multi-center and national database clinical studies. also, we believe the endowrist stapler 30 may have particular utility in thoracic procedures. mitral valve repair. when patients are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are typically two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient's post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen. 9 table of contents several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when using the da vinci surgical system. head and neck surgery transoral surgery. head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation, or a combination of both. surgical resection performed by an open approach may require a jaw-splitting mandibulotomy. this procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is potentially traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. mis approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated by conventional endoscopic tools. chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions; however, literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients' ability to speak and swallow normally. surgeons have reported that da vinci transoral surgery allows them to operate on tumors occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line-of-sight limitations of conventional transoral surgery. da vinci procedure mix our da vinci procedure business is broadly split into two categories: (1) cancer procedures and (2) procedures for benign conditions. cancer and other highly complex procedures tend to be reimbursed at higher rates than less complex procedures for benign conditions. thus, hospitals are more sensitive to the costs associated with treating less complex benign conditions. our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economic solutions across the spectrum of procedure complexity. our fully featured da vinci xi surgical system with advanced instruments, including the endowrist vessel sealer and endowrist and sureform stapler products, and our integrated table motion product, targets the more complex procedure segment. our da vinci x surgical system is targeted towards price sensitive markets and procedures. our da vinci sp surgical system complements the da vinci xi and x surgical systems by enabling surgeons to access narrow workspaces. clinical summary we believe that there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the da vinci surgical system, and we work closely with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in which a da vinci surgical system may bring value. as of december 31, 2019, we had an installed base of 5,582 da vinci surgical systems, including 3,531 in the u.s., 977 in europe, 780 in asia, and 294 in the rest of the world. we estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 1,229,000 surgical procedures of various types in hospitals throughout the world during the year ended december 31, 2019. additionally, we believe that there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the ion endoluminal system. as of december 31, 2019, we had an installed base of 10 ion endoluminal systems, all of which are located in the u.s. sales and customer support sales model we provide our products through direct sales organizations in the u.s., europe (excluding spain, portugal, italy, greece, and most eastern european countries), china, japan, south korea, india, and taiwan. in january 2019, our intuitive-fosun joint venture (referred to herein as the joint venture ) with shanghai fosun pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. ( fosun pharma ) acquired certain assets related to the distribution business of chindex medical limited and its affiliates ( chindex ), a subsidiary of fosun pharma, which has been our distribution partner for da vinci surgical systems in china since 2011, and began direct operations for da vinci products and services in china. see item 7. management discussion and analysis for further details on the joint venture. in the remainder of our markets outside of the u.s. ( ous ), we provide our products through distributors. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017. during the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, domestic revenue accounted for 70%, 71%, and 73%, respectively, of total revenue, while revenue from our ous markets accounted for 30%, 29%, and 27%, respectively, of total revenue. as of december 31, 2019, and 2018, 85% and 88% of all long-lived assets were in the u.s., respectively. our direct sales organization is composed of a capital sales team, responsible for selling systems, and a clinical sales team, responsible for supporting system use in procedures performed at our hospital accounts. our hospital accounts include both individual hospitals and healthcare facilities as well as hospitals and healthcare facilities that are part of an integrated delivery network ( idn groups ). the initial system sale into an account is a major capital equipment purchase by our customers and typically has a lengthy sales cycle that can be affected by macroeconomic factors, capital spending prioritization, timing of budgeting cycles, and competitive bidding processes. capital sales activities include educating surgeons or physicians and hospital staff across multiple specialties on the benefits of robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system or robotic-assisted bronchoscopy with an ion endoluminal system, total treatment costs, and the clinical applications that our technology enables. we also train our sales organization to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including the clinical benefits of robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system or robotic-assisted bronchoscopy with an ion endoluminal system, potential reductions in complications and length of stay, and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction, surgeon or physician recruitment, and procedure volume. 10 table of contents our clinical sales team works on site at hospitals, interacting with surgeons or physicians, operating room staff, and hospital administrators to develop and sustain successful robotic surgery or bronchoscopy programs. they assist the hospital in identifying surgeons or physicians who have an interest in robotic-assisted surgery or bronchosocpy and the potential benefits provided by the da vinci surgical system and the ion endoluminal system. our clinical sales team provides current clinical information on robotic-assisted surgery or bronchoscopy practices and new product applications to the hospital teams. our clinical sales team has grown with the expanded installed base of da vinci surgical systems, the new installed base of ion endoluminal systems, and the total number of procedures performed. we expect this organization to continue to grow as our business expands. our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. orders received are typically shipped within one business day. new direct customers who purchase a new system typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories soon after they receive their system. our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heavier in the fourth quarter and lighter in the first quarter, as hospital budgets are reset. in addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth quarters. in the u.s., volumes for procedures associated with benign conditions are typically seasonally higher in the fourth quarter when more patients have met annual deductibles and lower in the first quarter when deductibles are reset. seasonality outside the u.s. varies and is more pronounced around local holidays and vacation periods. the timing of procedures and changes in procedure volume impact the timing of instrument and accessory and capital purchases. customer support and training programs we have a network of field service engineers across the u.s., europe, and asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. this infrastructure of service and support specialists offers a full complement of services for our customers, including 24/7 support, installation, repair, and maintenance. we generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs. we provide basic system training that teaches the fundamental operating principles of the systems to surgeons, surgical assistants, and operating room nurses. we have established training centers where system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. training technologies include our simulation program, which provides independent da vinci skills development through interactive vr exercises, and our telementoring program, which provides real-time surgeon-to-surgeon learning and collaboration during robotic-assisted surgery. research and development we focus our research and development efforts on innovation and improvement for products and services that align with our mission: we believe that minimally invasive care is life-enhancing care. through ingenuity and intelligent technology, we believe that we can expand the potential of physicians to heal without constraints. we employ engineering and research and development staff to focus on delivering future innovations and sustaining improvements that advance our mission. in certain instances, we complement our research and development effort through collaborations with other companies, such as trumpf medical (a division of hill-rom holdings, inc.). manufacturing we manufacture our systems at our facilities in sunnyvale, california and durham, north carolina. we manufacture our instruments at our sunnyvale and mexicali, mexico facilities. in 2019, we acquired certain assets and operations from sch lly fiberoptic gmbh, and we are integrating endoscope manufacturing operations across multiple sites in germany and the u.s., which is expected to be completed around the end of 2020. we purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). we purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods relative to our anticipated demand. 11 table of contents competition we face competition in the forms of existing open surgery, conventional mis, drug therapies, radiation treatment, and emerging interventional surgical approaches. our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability, as well as educating hospitals, surgeons, and patients on the demonstrated results associated with robotic-assisted surgery using da vinci surgical systems and its value relative to other techniques. we also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the mis market. we believe that many companies are focused on adding capabilities to manual mis systems. because many of these developments are aimed at mis, we believe that our da vinci surgical systems may prove complementary to some of these new technologies. moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g., da vinci stapling and da vinci vessel sealer extend) that compete with product offerings traditionally within the domains of open surgery and/or conventional mis, we face greater competition from larger and well established companies, such as ethicon endo-surgery, inc. and medtronic plc. furthermore, a number of companies have introduced products in the field of robotic-assisted surgery or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field, including, but not limited to, the following companies: avatera medical gmbh; cmr surgical limited; johnson &amp; johnson (including their wholly-owned subsidiaries auris health, inc. and verb surgical inc.); medicaroid inc.; medrobotics corp.; medtronic plc; meerecompany inc.; olympus corp.; samsung corporation; smart robot technology group co. ltd.; titan medical, inc.; transenterix, inc.; and wego holding co., ltd. other companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. in addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. our revenues may be adversely impacted as our competitors announce their intent to enter our markets and as our customers anticipate the availability of competing products. intellectual property we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes. we generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. for example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. we also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own robust patent portfolio. as of december 31, 2019, we held ownership or exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 3,500 u.s. and foreign patents and more than 2,000 u.s. and foreign patent applications. we intend to continue filing new patent applications in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology. patents are granted for finite terms. upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a patent enter the public domain. government regulation our products and operations are subject to regulation by the fda, the state of california, and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use, and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate our compliance into the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to meet these standards could limit our ability to market our products in those regions that require compliance to such standards. examples of standards to which we are subject include electrical safety standards, such as those of the international electrotechnical commission (e.g., iec 60601-ss series of standards), and composition standards, such as the reduction of hazardous substances ( rohs ) and the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directives. united states regulation the fda regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing, distribution, and service of medical devices in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in addition, the fda regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the u.s. to markets outside of the u.s. and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad. under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act ( ffdca ), medical devices are classified into one of three classes class i, class ii, or class iii depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. our current products are class ii medical devices. 12 table of contents class ii devices are those which are subject to general controls, and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the fda, and clearance by the fda. premarket review and clearance by the fda for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process. unless a class ii device is exempt from a premarket review, the manufacturer must submit to the fda a premarket notification submission demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent in intended use and technology to a predicate device that is either: a device that has grandfather marketing status, because it was legally marketed prior to may 28, 1976, the date upon which the medical device amendments of 1976 were enacted; or a device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process. if the fda agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the u.s. the fda has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission, or a guidance-based 30-day period for special 510(k) submissions which have a more restrictive scope and generally involve more specific or very limited changes to a legally marketed device. as a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. the fda may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. if the fda determines that the device, or its intended use, is not substantially equivalent, the fda may deny the request for clearance. although unlikely for the types of products marketed by us, the fda may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into class iii, and the device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-market approval ( pma ) requirements. a pma application, which is intended to demonstrate that a device is safe and effective, must be supported by data, typically including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. the fda, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review a pma application, although the review more often occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. in approving a pma application or clearing a 510(k) submission, the fda may also require some form of post-market surveillance when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. in such cases, the manufacturer might be required to follow certain patient groups for a number of years and make periodic reports to the fda on the clinical status of those patients. after a device receives fda 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pma application approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make the determination of whether a modification requires a new 510(k) notification or pma application in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer's decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or pma approval for a particular change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease u.s. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. over the last several years, the fda has proposed reforms to its 510(k) clearance process, and such proposals could include increased requirements for clinical data and a longer review period, or could make it more difficult for manufacturers to utilize the 510(k) clearance process for their products. for example, in november 2018, fda officials announced forthcoming steps that the fda intends to take to modernize the premarket notification pathway under section 510(k) of the ffdca. among other things, the fda announced that it planned to develop proposals to drive manufacturers utilizing the 510(k) pathway toward the use of newer predicates. these proposals included plans to potentially sunset certain older devices that were used as predicates under the 510(k) clearance pathway and to potentially publish a list of devices that have been cleared on the basis of demonstrated substantial equivalence to predicate devices that are more than 10 years old. in may 2019, the fda solicited public feedback on these proposals. these proposals have not yet been finalized or adopted, and the fda may work with congress to implement such proposals through legislation. more recently, in september 2019, the fda finalized guidance describing an optional safety and performance based premarket review pathway for manufacturers of certain, well-understood device types to demonstrate substantial equivalence under the 510(k) clearance pathway by showing that such device meets objective safety and performance criteria established by the fda, thereby obviating the need for manufacturers to compare the safety and performance of their medical devices to specific predicate devices in the clearance process. the fda intends to develop and maintain a list of device types appropriate for the safety and performance based pathway and will continue to develop product-specific guidance documents that identify the performance criteria for each such device type, as well as the testing methods recommended in the guidance documents, where feasible. in addition, after a device is placed on the market, numerous fda and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. these requirements include establishment registration and device listing with the fda, compliance with medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur, and compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may present a risk to health. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, 13 table of contents that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims, and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the u.s. have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the fda's good manufacturing practice ( gmp ) requirements contained in its quality system regulation ( qsr ) and associated regulations and guidance. the qsr covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records, which demonstrate compliance with the fda regulation, the manufacturer's own procedures, specifications, and testing, as well as distribution and post-market experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the u.s. a company's facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the fda, which may issue reports known as form fda 483 or notices of inspectional observations, which list instances where the fda investigator believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if the observations are sufficiently serious or the manufacturer fails to respond appropriately, the fda may issue warning letters, or untitled letters, which are notices of potential enforcement actions against the manufacturer. if a warning letter or untitled letter is not addressed to the satisfaction of the fda or if the fda becomes aware of any other serious issue with a manufacturer's products or facilities, it could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import, and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the u.s. and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. to a greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include periodic inspections, inspections by third-party auditors, and specialized documentation. failure to meet all of the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support, and receive reimbursement for the use of our products in these countries. in addition to the above, we may seek to conduct clinical studies or trials in the u.s. or other countries on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for a particular indication. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation, and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such investigational use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board ( irb ). failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject the company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, secure reimbursement, or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot provide assurance that access to clinical investigators, sites, subjects, documentation, and data will be available on the terms and in the timeframes necessary. products manufactured outside the u.s. by or for us are subject to u.s. customs and fda inspection upon entry into the u.s. we must demonstrate compliance of such products with u.s. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays. california regulation the state of california requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and, until 2012, conducted periodic inspections of medical device manufacturers. our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in july 2011 and were found to be in compliance. in accordance with the state of california regulations, our license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information. although the state of california has announced the suspension of routine periodic inspections, there can be no assurance that the state of california will not resume such inspections or conduct such inspections under specific circumstances that are not yet known. foreign regulation in order for us to market our products in countries outside the united states, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations in other countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. some countries have regulatory review processes that are substantially longer than u.s. processes. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and meet all of the local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. 14 table of contents for example, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive regulatory approval to be sold in japan. we obtained approval from the japanese ministry of health, labor, and welfare ( mhlw ) for our da vinci si surgical systems in october 2012, for our da vinci xi surgical systems in march 2015, and for our da vinci x surgical systems in april 2018. national reimbursement status in japan was received for dvp procedures in april 2012 and for da vinci partial nephrectomy procedures in april 2016. an additional 12 da vinci procedures were granted reimbursement effective april 1, 2018, including gastrectomy, low anterior resection, lobectomy, and hysterectomy, for both malignant and benign conditions. these additional 12 reimbursed procedures have varying levels of conventional laparoscopic penetration and will be reimbursed at rates equal to the conventional laparoscopic procedures. given the reimbursement level and laparoscopic penetration for these 12 procedures, there can be no assurance that adoption will occur or that the adoption pace for these procedures will be similar to any other da vinci procedures. if these procedures are not adopted and we are not successful in obtaining adequate procedure reimbursements for additional procedures, then the demand for our products in japan could be limited. we are currently seeking reimbursement for additional procedures through the mhlw's senshin iryo processes as well as alternative reimbursement processes. our senshin iryo approvals require in-country clinical data and are considered for reimbursed status in april of even-numbered years. commercialization of medical devices in europe is regulated by the european union ( eu ). the eu presently requires that all medical products bear the conformit europ enne ( ce ) mark for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and performance mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which, once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu and those affiliated countries that accept the ce mark. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to affix the ce mark on products, a recognized european notified body must certify a manufacturer's quality system and design dossier for compliance with international and european requirements. we have received authorization from presafe denmark a/s (formerly dgm denmark a/s), a recognized european notified body and part of nemko presafe a/s, to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical systems and endowrist instruments and accessories. to maintain authorization to apply the ce mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. in september 2013, the european commission adopted a recommendation indicating that all notified bodies, including presafe, should carry out unannounced audits at least once every third year, of the manufacturers whose medical devices they have certified. these unannounced audits can also extend to the manufacturer's critical suppliers or sub-contractors (those that supply a critical input or perform a critical function for the manufacturer). if we modify our existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu or those whose marketing authorizations are based on the ce mark. in may 2017, the medical device regulation was implemented to replace the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the medical device regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants notified bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification, or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. certain countries, such as china and south korea, have their own regulatory agencies. these countries typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. our system sales into china are also dependent on obtaining importation authorizations and provincial approvals, as well as hospitals completing a tender process under the authorization. in october 2018, the china national health commission published on its official website the quota for major medical equipment to be imported and sold in china through 2020. the government will allow the sale of 154 new surgical robots into china, which could include da vinci surgical systems as well as surgical systems introduced by others. sales of da vinci surgical systems under the quota are uncertain, as they are dependent on hospitals completing a tender process and receiving associated approvals. in addition, local regulations may apply, which govern the use of our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. all such regulations are revised from time to time and, in general, are increasing in complexity, and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing required. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. there are further regulations governing the importation, marketing, sale, distribution, use, and service as well as the removal and disposal of 15 table of contents medical devices in the regions in which we operate and market our products. failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions or fines and could prevent us from marketing our products in these regions. other healthcare laws we are also subject to federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency, privacy, and security laws and regulations. these laws include: the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering, or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order, or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the medicare and medicaid programs. a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal anti-kickback statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims act; federal false claims laws that prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent. private individuals can bring false claims act qui tam actions on behalf of the government, and such individuals may share in amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement; the federal civil monetary penalties law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary's decision to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier; federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; the federal physician payment sunshine act, which requires (i) manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies for which payment is available under medicare, medicaid, or the children's health insurance program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ) information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists, and chiropractors), certain other healthcare professionals (as described below), and teaching hospitals, and (ii) applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to cms ownership any investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members and payments or other transfers of value to such physician owners. additionally, on october 25, 2018, president trump signed into law the substance use-disorder prevention that promoted opioid recovery and treatment for patients and communities act, which, in part (under a provision entitled fighting the opioid epidemic with sunshine ), extends the reporting and transparency requirements for physicians in the physician payments sunshine act to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse midwives (with reporting requirements going into effect in 2022 for payments made in 2021). manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year; and analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources, state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and pricing information, and laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, including the e.u. general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 16 table of contents if our operations are found to violate any of the laws described above or any other laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from our participation in federal and state healthcare programs, and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to market our products and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. third-party coverage and reimbursement in the u.s. and most markets ous where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all covered surgical procedures. governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and physicians for surgery when the procedure is considered medically necessary. in the u.s., cms administers the medicare and medicaid programs (the latter, along with applicable state governments). many other third-party payors model their reimbursement methodologies after the medicare program. as the single largest payor, this program has a significant impact on other payors' payment systems. generally, reimbursement for professional services performed at a facility by physicians is reported under billing codes issued by the american medical association ( ama ), known as current procedural terminology ( cpt ) codes. physician reimbursement under medicare generally is based on a fee schedule and determined by the relative value of the professional service rendered. in addition, cms and the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to billing codes used by hospitals to report inpatient procedures, icd-10-pcs codes. for medicare, cms generally reimburses hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay based on a prospective payment system that is determined by a classification system known as medicare-severity diagnostic related groupings ( ms-drgs ). ms-drgs are assigned using a number of factors, including the principal diagnosis, major procedures, discharged status, patient age, and complicating secondary diagnoses, among other things. hospital outpatient services, reported by cpt codes, are assigned to clinically relevant ambulatory payment classifications ( apcs ) used to determine the payment amount for services provided. since october 1, 2015, a new family of icd-10-pcs codes can be used, in conjunction with other applicable procedure codes, to describe various robotic-assisted procedures. an inpatient surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the clinically relevant ms-drg. governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, contract terms, and other factors. because both hospitals and physicians may receive the same reimbursement for their respective services, with or without robotics, regardless of actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care, including for the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products. domestic institutions typically bill various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid, and other government programs and private insurance plans for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products. because our da vinci surgical systems have been cleared for commercial distribution in the u.s. by the fda, coverage and reimbursement by payors are generally determined by the medical necessity of the primary surgical procedure. governmental and third-party payors may also consider additional factors when determining coverage and reimbursement, including the designation of the surgical procedure as a covered benefit, the appropriateness of the procedure for the specific patient, support by guidelines established by the relevant professional college or medical society, and a payor determination that the procedure is neither experimental nor investigational. we believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies for appropriately selected patients. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. in countries outside the u.s., reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. in most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. in addition, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain european countries. to effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek ous reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. in some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such co-pay practices are not common in most countries. in the u.s., there have been, and continue to be, a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), was enacted. the ppaca made changes that have significantly impacted healthcare providers, insurers, and pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. the ppaca contained a number of provisions designed to 17 table of contents generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansion, including, but not limited to, fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. the u.s. medical device excise tax ("mdet") initially became effective on january 1, 2013. for sales between january 1, 2013 and december 31, 2015, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% on certain u.s. medical device revenues. in december 2015, the consolidated appropriations act, 2016 (the appropriations act ) was signed into law. the appropriations act included a two-year moratorium on the mdet such that medical device sales in 2016 and 2017 were exempt from the excise tax. this moratorium was extended through december 31, 2019, by the extension of continuing appropriations act of 2018, signed into law on january 22, 2018. the mdet was repealed in december 2019. the ppaca also appropriated funding to research the comparative effectiveness of healthcare treatments and strategies. it remains unclear how this research will influence future medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions as well as influence other third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies. the ppaca, as well as other federal or state healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the taxes imposed by ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits, lower reimbursement from payors for procedures that use our products, and/or reduced procedural volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. these changes included an aggregate reduction in medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013 and will remain in effect through 2027 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers, and cancer treatment centers. the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, enacted on april 16, 2015 ( macra ), repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models, such as accountable care organizations. individual states in the u.s. have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints and discounts, and require marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures. there have also been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ppaca, as well as efforts by the u.s. administration to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. since january 2017, the u.s. president has signed two executive orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the ppaca or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ppaca. the current u.s. administration has also announced that it will discontinue the payment of cost-sharing reduction ( csr ) payments to insurance companies until congress approves the appropriation of funds for the csr payments. the loss of the csr payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the ppaca. legislation to appropriate funds for csr payments has been introduced in congress, but the future of such legislation is uncertain. in addition, cms has finalized regulations that are effective beginning with the 2020 plan year that would give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the ppaca for plans sold through such marketplaces. as a result of the tax cuts and jobs act ( 2017 tax act ) enacted on december 22, 2017, the ppaca's individual mandate penalty for not having health insurance coverage was eliminated starting in 2019. further, each chamber of congress has put forth multiple bills designed to repeal or repeal and replace portions of the ppaca. on december 14, 2018, a u.s. district court judge in the northern district of texas, ruled that the individual mandate is a critical and inseverable feature of the aca and, therefore, because it was repealed as part of the 2017 tax act, the remaining provisions of the aca are invalid as well. while the current white house administration and cms have both stated that the ruling will have no immediate effect, it is unclear how this decision, subsequent pending appeals, and other efforts to repeal and replace the aca will impact the aca and our business. although the majority of these measures have not been enacted by congress to date, congress may continue to consider other legislation to repeal or repeal and replace elements of the ppaca. any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. employees as of december 31, 2019, we had 7,326 employees, 999 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 3,243 in manufacturing and service, and 3,084 in marketing, sales, and administrative activities. none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 18 table of contents general we make our periodic and current reports, including our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). our website address is www.intuitive.com, and the reports are filed under sec filings on the company investor relations portion of our website. periodically, we webcast company announcements, product launch events, and executive presentations, which can be viewed via our investor relations page on our website. in addition, we provide notifications of our material news, including sec filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our investor relations page on our website. the contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov . the contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. further, references to the urls for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. we operate our business as one segment, as defined by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. our financial results for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 are discussed in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this annual report. intuitive surgical, inc. was founded in 1995. we are a delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1020 kifer road, sunnyvale, california 94086. our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address is www.intuitive.com . 19 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient, and third-party payor acceptance of robotic-assisted surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery is crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products, and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians' and third-party payors' acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing healthcare reform initiatives and the evolving u.s. healthcare environment. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our company. uncertainty about global economic conditions, including credit and sovereign debt concerns in certain european countries and concerns about slowed economic growth in china and other ous markets, has caused and may continue to cause disruptions in the financial credit markets, volatile currency exchange rates, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and liquidity concerns. customers and distributors may choose to postpone or reduce spending due to financial difficulties or may be unable to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products due to restraints on credit. there could be additional effects from adverse conditions in the credit markets on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacturing of our products resulting in product delays. in addition, our business is closely tied to the overall u.s. healthcare system, relating to which there are concerns and uncertainties as a result of efforts made by the u.s. federal government to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. in addition, the u.s. federal government has called for, or enacted, substantial changes to trade, fiscal, and tax policies, which may include changes to existing trade agreements including, but not limited to, the replacement of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) contemplated by the pending united states-mexico-canada agreement ("usmca"), that may have a significant impact on our operations. we cannot predict the impact, if any, that these changes could have on our business. if economic conditions worsen or new legislation is passed related to the healthcare system or trade, fiscal, or tax policies, customer demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors' products or services or may not accept da vinci robotic-assisted surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. robotic-assisted surgery with a da vinci surgical system is a technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, and pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and, in many cases, have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than robotic-assisted surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. additionally, we face or expect to face competition from companies that develop or have developed wristed, robotic-assisted, or computer-assisted surgical systems and products. companies have introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field including, but not limited to, the following companies: avatera medical gmbh; cmr surgical limited; johnson &amp; johnson (including their wholly-owned subsidiaries 20 table of contents auris health, inc. and verb surgical inc.); medicaroid inc.; medrobotics corp.; medtronic plc; meerecompany inc.; olympus corp.; samsung corporation; smart robot technology group co. ltd.; titan medical, inc.; transenterix, inc.; and wego holding co., ltd. other companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become competitors. our revenues may be reduced due to pricing pressure or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. in addition, third-party service providers that provide services to da vinci surgical system operators may emerge and compete with us on price or offerings. to date, substantially all of our customers have sourced services on their da vinci surgical systems from us through service contract commitments or time and materials contracts. furthermore, there are third-party service providers offering consulting services targeted at analyzing the cost-effectiveness of hospitals' robotic-assisted surgery programs, including procedures performed, placement of systems, and consumption of instruments and accessories. we currently provide similar services and analysis to our customers, but it is difficult to assess the impact that this may have on our business. if we are unable to compete successfully with any third-party service providers, our revenues may suffer. our customers may use unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. a large portion of our revenue is generated through our sales of instruments and accessories. third parties have attempted to and may discover ways to manufacture and sell counterfeit reprocessed instruments and/or alter instruments that are compatible and function with the da vinci surgical system, and such activities may reduce our market share. while our sales arrangements with customers generally prohibit the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories with da vinci surgical systems, warranties will be void if such instruments and accessories are used, and a programmed memory chip inside each instrument is designed to prevent the instrument from being used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure, these measures may not prevent the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories by our customers. in addition to potential reductions to our revenues and market share, sales of unauthorized instruments and accessories by third parties may create safety and health risks to da vinci patients and could cause negative publicity for us if these products cause injuries and/or do not function as intended when used with da vinci surgical systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. new product developments and introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we develop and introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. we may introduce new products that target different markets than what our existing products target. the success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, timely and successful research and development, regulatory clearances or approvals, pricing, competition, market and consumer acceptance, the effective forecasting and management of product demand, inventory levels, the management of manufacturing and supply costs, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. we invest substantially in various research and development projects to expand our product offerings. our research and development efforts are critical to our success, and our research and development projects may not be successful. we may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products we invest in and develop may not be well-received by customers or meet our expectations. our research and development investments may not generate significant operating income or contribute to our future operating results for several years, and such contributions may not meet our expectations or even cover the costs of such investments. in addition, the introduction or announcement of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products or reduce demand for our current products, thereby offsetting any benefits of successful product introductions and potentially leading to challenges in managing inventory of existing products. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory clearance, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. in the past, we have experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products in advance of new product introductions and may experience a slowdown in demand in the future as well. it is also possible that a new product introduction could cause downward pressure on the prices of our existing products or require us to change how we sell our products, either of which could have material adverse effect on our revenues. if we fail to effectively develop new products and manage new product introductions in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. 21 table of contents we expect gross profit margins to vary over time, and changes in our gross profit margins could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our gross profit margins have fluctuated from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. our gross profit margins may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including the mix of da vinci surgical system models sold or leased; changes in the portion of sales involving a trade-in of another system and the amount of trade-in credits given; introduction of new products, which may have lower margins than our existing products; our ability to maintain or reduce production costs; changes to our pricing strategy; changes in competition; changes in production volume driven by demand for our products; changes in material, labor, or other manufacturing-related costs, including the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations for foreign currency-denominated costs; changes to u.s. and foreign trade policies, such as the enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the u.s. including, but not limited to, goods imported from mexico where we manufacture a majority of our instruments that we sell; inventory obsolescence and product recall charges; and market conditions. if we are unable to offset the unfavorable impact of the factors noted above by increasing the volume of products shipped, reducing product manufacturing costs, or otherwise, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. we experience long and variable capital sales cycles and seasonality in our business, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results. the sales and purchase order cycle of our da vinci surgical system is lengthy, because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable. in addition, sales to some of our customers are subject to competitive bidding or public tender processes. these approval and bidding processes can be lengthy. as a result, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in conjunction with the timing of their capital budget timelines. further, idn groups are creating larger networks of da vinci system users with increasing purchasing power and are increasingly evaluating their robotic-assisted surgery programs to optimize the efficiency of surgeries using da vinci surgical systems. further, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. as a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heavier in the fourth quarter and lighter in the first quarter, as hospital budgets are reset. we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies, sacrocolpopexies, hernia repairs, cholecystectomies, and certain other surgeries. many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. historically, we have experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third quarters of the year and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth quarters of the year. the timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases by customers. the above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is possible that, in future periods, our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that our operating results in any particular period may not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. 22 table of contents we are subject to a variety of risks due to our operations outside of the u.s. we manufacture, perform research and development activities, and distribute our products in ous markets. revenue from ous markets accounted for approximately 30%, 29%, and 27% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. our ous operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks including: failure to obtain or maintain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the u.s.; multiple ous regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products; changes in tariffs, trade barriers, and regulatory requirements; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in ous markets; local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products; u.s. relations with the governments of the foreign countries in which we operate; inability or regulatory limitations on our ability to move goods across borders; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing ous operations, including differing labor relations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; building and maintaining an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations, including appropriate business procedures and controls; anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials; antitrust and anti-competition laws; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; and business interruptions due to natural disasters, outbreak of disease, and other events beyond our control. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom (the uk ) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union (the eu ), commonly referred to as brexit. on march 29, 2017, the uk formally notified the eu of its intention to withdraw pursuant to article 50 of the lisbon treaty. the commencement of the official withdrawal process by the uk has created uncertainties affecting business operations in the uk and the eu. on january 24, 2020, the uk and eu entered into a withdrawal agreement pursuant to which the uk will leave the eu on january 31, 2020, but will, for a transition period ending on december 31, 2020, maintain access to the eu single market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the eu on behalf of its members and remain subject to eu law. the ongoing uncertainty within the uk's government and parliament on the status of brexit has negatively impacted the uk's economy and will likely continue to have a negative impact until the uk and eu reach a definitive resolution on the outstanding trade and legal matters. until the terms of the uk's exit from the eu are determined, including any transition period, it is difficult to predict its impact. even if the uk maintains access to the eu single market and trade deals following the transition period, brexit could result in further economic downturn globally. if the uk ultimately loses access to the eu single market and trade deals, significant market and economic disruption would likely occur, our business would likely be negatively impacted, and the demand for our products could be depressed. in addition, it is possible that the withdrawal could, among other things, affect the legal and regulatory environments to which our business is subject, impose greater restrictions on imports and exports between the uk and the eu and other parties, and create economic and political uncertainty in the region. we may face new regulations in the uk. compliance with such regulations could be costly, negatively impacting our business, results of operations, and financial condition. brexit could also adversely affect european and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the euro, british pound, and other currencies that intuitive conducts business in. in addition, the u.s. federal government has made changes to u.s. trade policy, including signing an executive order to withdraw from the negotiating process of the trans-pacific partnership, renegotiating the terms of nafta, as contemplated by the usmca, and imposing border taxes on imports into the u.s. on november 30, 2018, the leaders of the u.s., mexico, and canada signed the usmca, a replacement to nafta, which remains subject to the ratification by the legislatures of each country. we manufacture a majority of the instruments that we sell in mexico and any legislation enacted that impacts the relationship between the u.s. and mexico and/or the continuity of nafta could adversely affect our operations and financial results. in addition, the u.s. federal government has implemented, or is considering the imposition of, tariffs on certain foreign goods. such tariffs and, if enacted, any further legislation or actions taken by the u.s. federal government that restrict trade, such as additional tariffs, trade barriers, and other protectionist or retaliatory measures taken by governments in europe, asia, 23 table of contents and other countries, could adversely impact our ability to sell products and services in our ous markets. tariffs could increase the cost of our products and the components and raw materials that go into making them. these increased costs could adversely impact the gross margin that we earn on our products. tariffs could make our products more expensive for customers, which could make our products less competitive and reduce consumer demand. countries may also adopt other protectionist measures that could limit our ability to offer our products and services. furthermore, a large portion of our ous sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in ous markets. if we are unable to meet and manage these risks, our ous operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, which subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to sell or service our products in the markets serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. in addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them. please see our risk factor below titled we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention, and harm our business. the actions of our distributors may affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if a distributor holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance. it may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming for us to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance in such cases. we offer alternative capital acquisition approaches. as a result, we are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and the risk of losses of revenue, which could result in material losses. we believe customer financing through leasing is an important consideration for some of our customers and have experienced an increase in demand for customer financing. we may experience loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to the contractual lease terms. our exposure to the credit risks relating to our lease financing arrangements may increase if our customers are adversely affected by changes in healthcare laws, coverage and reimbursement, economic pressures or uncertainty, or other customer-specific factors. although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing credit risks relating to these lease financing arrangements. if the level of credit losses we experience in the future exceed our expectations, such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. certain of our leasing arrangements allow customers to cancel, return, or upgrade the systems leased prior to the end of the lease term without incurring a financial penalty. we also lease our systems to certain qualified customers where the lease payments are based on their usage of the systems. while leases and usage-based arrangements enable our customers to upgrade and get access to new technologies faster, it may also enable competitors to more easily induce customers to switch to a competitor system. if customers do not perform a sufficient number of procedures on systems leased under usage-based arrangements, or return or terminate leases prematurely, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows. we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relates to revenue and operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects our foreign currency-denominated revenue. margins on ous revenue could also be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as we may not be able to raise local prices to fully offset the strengthening of the u.s. dollar. conversely, the strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, while generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings, may cause us to reduce pricing on our products in our ous markets and may cause us to incur losses on our foreign currency hedging instruments, thereby limiting the benefit that strengthened foreign currencies could have on our results of operations. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity, and expense. although we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our 24 table of contents exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to transactions denominated in the euro, japanese yen, korean won, british pound, and swiss franc, and we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary, our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact caused by unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange risk. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market value of our investments. our investment portfolio includes both domestic and international investments. the credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity concerns, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, or other factors. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could fluctuate substantially. our other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of investments, impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments, changes in interest rates, increases or decreases in cash balances, volatility in foreign exchange rates, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investments may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. while we have not realized any significant losses on our cash equivalents or marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products, and our reputation may suffer. our success depends on the quality and reliability of our products. while we subject components sourced and products manufactured to stringent quality specifications and processes, our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and computer software, any of which may contain errors or exhibit failures, especially when products are first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, we and our customers have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products. although our products are subject to stringent quality processes and controls, we cannot provide assurance that our products will not experience component aging, errors, or performance problems. if we experience product flaws or performance problems, any or all of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. costs associated with product flaws or performance problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention, and harm our business. we are, and may become, subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings to which we are party, including purported class actions, product liability litigation, and patent litigation, are described in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. in particular, our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims, which are inherent to the medical device industry. product liability claims have been brought against us by, or on behalf of, individuals alleging that they have sustained personal injuries and/or death as a result of purported product defects, the alleged failure to warn, and/or the alleged 25 table of contents inadequate training by us of physicians regarding the use of the da vinci surgical system. the individuals who have brought the product liability claims seek recovery for their alleged personal injuries and, in many cases, punitive damages. current product liability claims have resulted in negative publicity regarding our company, and these and any other product liability or negligence claims or product recalls also could harm our reputation. please see our risk factor below titled negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues for additional risks related to the potential effects of negative publicity on our business. the outcome of these product liability claims and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. we currently self-insure our product liability risk and maintain third-party insurance coverage for certain other liabilities. however, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage from third-party carriers, or our self-insurance of product liability risk, would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses related to these lawsuits and proceedings or otherwise be excluded under the terms of any third-party policy. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant legal costs (including settlements, judgments, legal fees, and other related defense costs) and diversion of management attention. if we do not prevail in the purported class actions, product liability litigation, or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. there have been articles published and reports questioning patient safety and efficacy associated with robotic-assisted surgery with the da vinci surgical system and its cost relative to other disease management methods and the adequacy of surgeon training. negative publicity, including statements made by public officials, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. in addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, regardless of whether these claims are meritorious. the number of claims could be further increased by plaintiffs' law firms that use a wide variety of media to advertise their services and solicit clients for product liability cases against us. we are subject to significant, uninsured liabilities. for certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. for example, we self-insure our product liability risks, and we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not carry insurance to cover that indemnity or the related underlying losses. we also do not carry, among other types of coverage, earthquake and cyber insurance. in addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years and, depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance, such as directors' and officers' insurance, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. because we retain some portion of our insurable risks and, in some cases, we are self-insured completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we (or our critical suppliers) may encounter difficulties in scaling up or maintaining production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; import or export restrictions on components, materials, or technology; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal, and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 26 table of contents our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction, and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. in the u.s., hospitals generally bill for the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid, and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. in addition, to the extent that there is a shift from an inpatient setting to outpatient settings, we may experience pricing pressure and a reduction in the number of procedures performed. our success in ous markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored healthcare payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many ous markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, healthcare cost containment efforts similar to those in the u.s. are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled changes in healthcare legislation and policy may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. for example, our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software, and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural disasters or other events beyond our control could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities, and other business disruptions including, but not limited to, internet security threats, could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. for example, the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan and their aftermath created economic uncertainty and disrupted economic activities in japan, including a reduction in hospital spending. furthermore, our corporate headquarters and many of our operations, including certain of our manufacturing facilities, are located in california, which has experienced both severe earthquakes and other natural disasters in the past. we do not have multiple-site capacity for all of our operations in the event of a business disruption. furthermore, parties in our supply chain and our customers are similarly vulnerable to natural disasters or other sudden, unforeseen, and severe adverse events. a natural disaster in any of our major markets, or an unanticipated business disruption caused, for example, by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks, or similar events, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 27 table of contents epidemic diseases, or the perception of their effects, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. outbreaks of epidemic, pandemic, or contagious diseases, such as the recent novel coronavirus or, historically, the ebola virus, middle east respiratory syndrome, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or the h1n1 virus, could divert medical resources and priorities towards the treatment of that disease. an outbreak of a contagious disease could also negatively affect hospital admission rates or disrupt our business. business disruptions could include disruptions or restrictions on our ability to travel or to distribute our products, as well as temporary closures of our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers and their contract manufacturers, and a reduction in the business hours of hospitals. any disruption of our suppliers and their contract manufacturers or our customers would likely impact our sales and operating results. in addition, a significant outbreak of epidemic, pandemic, or contagious diseases in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, resulting in an economic downturn that could affect demand for our products. any of these events could negatively impact the number of da vinci procedures performed and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if we do not successfully manage our collaboration arrangements, licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships with third parties, we may not realize the expected benefits from such alliances, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows . from time to time, we enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships to complement or augment our research and development, product development, training, procedure development, and marketing efforts. for example, in 2016, we entered into an agreement to form the joint venture. in january 2019, the joint venture acquired certain assets related to the da vinci distribution business of chindex, a subsidiary of fosun pharma, which has been our distribution partner for da vinci surgical systems in china since 2011, following which the joint venture began direct distribution operations for da vinci products and services in china. there can be no assurance that we and the joint venture can successfully complete the development of robotic-assisted, catheter-based medical devices, or that we and the joint venture will successfully commercialize such products. there can also be no assurance that the joint venture will not require additional contributions to fund its business, that the joint venture will become profitable, or that the acquired chindex assets will be successfully integrated and that the expected benefits will be realized. proposing, negotiating, and implementing collaborations, in-licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. in addition, other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology, or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. as a result, we may not identify, secure, or complete any such arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or on otherwise favorable terms, if it all. there can be no assurance that we will realize the expected benefits from these alliances. in addition, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding any collaboration or other arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our alliances may have economic or business interests that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our interests. it is possible that conflicts may arise in these relationships, such as conflicts concerning the achievement of performance milestones or the interpretation of significant terms under any agreement, such as those related to financial obligations, termination rights, or the ownership or control of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. these alliances can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of the parties involved, and we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties. there can be no assurance that we will realize a return on our strategic investments. further, if we acquire privately held companies, valuations of such companies are inherently complex due to the lack of readily available market data. if we determined that our investments in privately held companies have experienced a decline in value, we may be required to record impairments, which could be material and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. the alliances may involve significant expense and divert the focus and attention of our management and other key personnel. any of these relationships may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near- and long-term expenditures, or disrupt our ordinary business activities. such arrangements may also expose us to numerous known and unknown risks, including unique risks with respect to the economic, political, and regulatory environment of any foreign entities with whom we partner, including fosun pharma. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products, and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or our business may be harmed. we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands, and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products, or technologies rather than through internal development. 28 table of contents identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies, or employees into our operations or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. an acquired company may have deficiencies in product quality, regulatory marketing authorizations, or intellectual property protections, which are not detected during due diligence activities or which are unasserted at the time of acquisition. it may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming for us to re-establish market access, regulatory compliance, or cure such deficiencies in product quality or intellectual property protection in such cases, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming and may strain our resources. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors, or other partners for a variety of reasons, including that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. in 2019, we acquired certain assets and operations from sch lly fiberoptic gmbh, a supplier of endoscopes and other visualization equipment. the integration of this acquisition involves complex manufacturing and repair operations across different geographic locations. therefore, we cannot assure you that we can successfully integrate this acquisition or manufacture robotic endoscopes after the acquisition. failure to successfully integrate our acquisitions may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. continued consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. the healthcare industry has been consolidating, and organizations continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for many of our healthcare provider customers. numerous initiatives and reforms by legislators, regulators, and third-party payers to curb the rising cost of healthcare have catalyzed a consolidation of aggregate purchasing power within the markets in which we sell our products. as the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services is expected to continue to intensify, resulting in pricing pressures and decreased average selling prices. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party coverage and reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further consolidation, which may exert further downward pressure on prices of our products and services and may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the reevaluation of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. we use estimates, make judgments, and apply certain methods in determining our financial results and in measuring the progress of our business. as these estimates, judgments, and methods change, our results of operations and our assessment of the progress of our business could vary. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes as well as the number and type (cancerous or benign) of certain da vinci procedures performed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. our estimates of surgical market sizes or the number and type of da vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations but are used to estimate the progress of our business. estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and the number and type of da vinci procedures and the accuracy of these estimates may be impacted over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, system internet connectivity, distributor reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee, and other factors. in addition, from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and the number and type of da vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting. 29 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. tax rates in these jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic and/or political conditions. a number of other factors may also impact our future effective tax rate, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in availability of tax credits, tax holidays, and tax deductions; changes in share-based compensation; and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. we are unable to predict what changes to the tax laws of the u.s. and other jurisdictions may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect such changes would have on our business. any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations, and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process, and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast, and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. our business requires us to use and store customer, employee, and business partner personally identifiable information ( pii ). this may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. we require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. we also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. these security measures may be compromised as a result of security breaches by unauthorized persons, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. for example, our employees have received phishing emails and phone calls attempting to induce them to divulge passwords and other sensitive information. in addition, unauthorized persons may attempt to hack into our products or systems to obtain personal data relating to patients or employees, our confidential or proprietary information, or confidential information we hold on behalf of third parties. if the unauthorized persons successfully hack into or interfere with our connected products or services, they may create issues with product functionality that could pose a risk of loss of data, a risk to patient safety, and a risk of product recall or field activity, which could adversely impact our business and reputation. we have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to data security incidents, and we make ongoing improvements to our information-sharing products in order to minimize vulnerabilities, in accordance with industry and regulatory standards. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect, we may not be able to anticipate and prevent these intrusions or mitigate them when and if they occur. we also rely on external vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. the systems of these external vendors may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security of our own systems, and we are dependent on these third parties to deploy appropriate security programs to protect their systems. while we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. we may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. it is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period, including several years or longer. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs, and security vulnerabilities could be significant. our efforts to address 30 table of contents these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service, and harm to our business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of pii, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, and use of our products and services could decrease. we would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. our business is subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and other matters relating to information collection. there are numerous state, federal, and foreign laws, regulations, decisions, and directives regarding privacy and the collection, storage, transmission, use, processing, disclosure, and protection of different types of personal data and personal information ("personal information") and other customer or other data, the scope of which is continually evolving and subject to differing interpretations. we may be subject to significant consequences, including penalties and fines, for any failure to comply with such laws, regulations, and directives. for example, the general data protection regulation (the "gdpr"), which is in effect across the european economic area (the "eea"), imposes several stringent requirements for controllers and processors of personal data and increased our obligations, for example, by imposing higher standards when obtaining consent from individuals to process their personal data, requiring more robust disclosures to individuals, strengthening individual data rights, shortening timelines for data breach notifications, limiting retention periods and secondary use of information, increasing requirements pertaining to health data as well as pseudonymised (i.e., key-coded) data, and imposing additional obligations when we contract third-party processors in connection with the processing of personal data. the gdpr provides that eu member states may make their own further laws and regulations limiting the processing of genetic, biometric, or health data, which could limit our ability to use and share personal data or could cause our costs to increase and harm our business and financial condition. failure to comply with the requirements of the gdpr and the applicable national data protection laws of the eu member states may result in fines of up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year and other administrative penalties. compliance with the new data protection rules imposed by gdpr may be onerous and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. california recently passed the california consumer privacy act (the ccpa ), which is considered by many to be the most far-reaching data privacy law introduced in the us to date and which introduces new compliance burdens on many organizations doing business in california who collect personal information about california residents. the ccpa's definition of personal information is very broad and specifically includes biometric information. the ccpa took effect in 2020 and will allow for significant fines by the state attorney general, as well as a private right of action from individuals in relation to certain security breaches. the enactment of the ccpa is prompting a wave of similar legislative developments in other us states and creating the potential for a patchwork of overlapping but different state laws. these developments are increasing our compliance burden and our risk, including risks of regulatory fines, litigation and associated reputational harm. in addition, recent legal developments in switzerland and europe have created complexity and compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of information from switzerland and the eu to the united states. for example, the eu-us privacy shield framework is regularly reviewed, and there is current litigation challenging the adequacy of eu-specified standard contractual clauses (another data transfer mechanism). it is uncertain whether the privacy shield framework and/or the standard contractual clauses will be invalidated by the european courts or legislature. we rely on a mixture of mechanisms to transfer personal data from our eu business to the u.s. and could be impacted by changes in law as a result of a future review of these transfer mechanisms by european regulators under the gdpr as well as current challenges to these mechanisms in the european courts. if one or more of the legal bases for transferring personal information from europe to the u.s. is invalidated, or if we are unable to transfer personal information between and among countries and regions in which we operate, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services or could adversely affect our financial results. furthermore, any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with or make effective modifications to our policies or to comply with any federal, state, or international privacy, data-retention, or data-protection-related laws, regulations, orders, or industry self-regulatory principles could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, a loss of customer confidence, damage to our brand and reputation, and a loss of customers, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, various federal, state, and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data-retention, and data-protection issues, including laws or regulations mandating disclosure to domestic or international law enforcement bodies, which could adversely impact our business or our reputation with customers. for example, some countries have adopted laws mandating that some personal information regarding customers in their country be maintained solely in their country. having to maintain local data centers and redesign product, service, and business operations to limit personal information processing to within individual countries could increase our operating costs significantly. 31 table of contents changes in funding for the fda or other government agencies, including a prolonged government shutdown, may adversely affect our business. hospital, health systems, and physicians depend on a number of government agencies and services to effectively deliver healthcare to their patients. a prolonged government shutdown could impact inspections, regulatory review and certifications, grants, or approvals or could cause other situations that could impede their ability to effectively deliver healthcare, including attempts to reduce payments and other reimbursements to hospitals by federal healthcare programs. these situations could adversely affect our customers' ability to perform procedures with our devices and/or their decisions to purchase additional products from us. in addition, the ability of the fda to review and approve new products can be affected by a variety of factors, including government budget and funding levels, ability to hire and retain key personnel and accept the payment of user fees, and statutory, regulatory, and policy changes. disruptions at the fda and other agencies, including a prolonged government shutdown, may cause significant regulatory delays and, therefore, delay our efforts to seek clearances from the fda and adversely affect business travel and import and export of products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. risks relating to our regulatory environment changes in healthcare legislation and policy may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in the u.s., there have been, and continue to be, a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. in march 2010, the ppaca was enacted, which made changes that have impacted and are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. the ppaca contained a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansions among other things. this includes fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. for sales between january 1, 2013, and december 31, 2015, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain u.s. medical device revenues. although there were some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax applied to most of our products sold within the u.s. in december 2015, the consolidated appropriations act, 2016 (the appropriations act ) was signed into law. the appropriations act included a two-year moratorium on the mdet such that medical device sales in 2016 and 2017 were exempt from the excise tax. this moratorium was extended through december 31, 2019, by the extension of continuing appropriations act of 2018, signed into law on january 22, 2018. the mdet was repealed in december 2019. the ppaca also implemented a number of medicare payment system reforms, including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians, and other providers to improve the coordination, quality, and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models and appropriated funding for comparative effectiveness research. the taxes imposed by the ppaca and the expansion in the government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. since its enactment, there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ppaca as well as efforts by the current u.s. administration to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ppaca. since january 2017, the u.s. president has signed two executive orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the ppaca or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ppaca. the current u.s. administration has also announced that it will discontinue the payment of cost-sharing reduction ( csr ) payments to insurance companies until congress approves the appropriation of funds for the csr payments. the loss of the csr payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the ppaca. legislation to appropriate funds for csr payments has been introduced in congress, but the future of such legislation is uncertain. in addition, cms has finalized regulations that are effective beginning with the 2020 plan year that would give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the ppaca for plans sold through such marketplaces. because of the 2017 tax act, the ppaca's individual mandate penalty for not having health insurance coverage was eliminated starting in 2019. it is unclear what impact the elimination of the individual mandate penalty will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. on december 14, 2018, a u.s. district court judge in the northern district of texas, ruled that the individual mandate is a critical and inseverable feature of the aca and, therefore, because it was repealed as part of the 2017 tax act, the remaining provisions of the aca are invalid as well. while the current white house administration and cms have both stated that the ruling will have no immediate effect, it is unclear how this decision, subsequent pending appeals, and other efforts to repeal and replace the aca will impact the aca and our business. 32 table of contents further, each chamber of congress has put forth multiple bills designed to repeal or repeal and replace portions of the ppaca. although the majority of these measures have not been enacted by congress to date, congress may continue to consider other legislation to repeal or repeal and replace elements of the ppaca. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. these changes include aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on april 1, 2013, and will remain in effect through 2027 unless additional congressional action is taken. on january 2, 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers, and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. macra repealed the formula by which medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments that began in 2019, which are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models, such as accountable care organizations. it is unclear what impact new quality and payment programs, such as macra, may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. individual states in the u.s. have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints and discounts, and require marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures. we expect additional state and federal healthcare reform measures to be adopted in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our customers. any changes to, or uncertainty with respect to, future reimbursement rates or changes in hospital admission rates could impact our customers' demand for our products and services, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. further, the federal, state, and local governments, medicare, medicaid, managed-care organizations, and foreign governments have, in the past, considered, are currently considering, and may, in the future, consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the u.s. or other countries, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes, competitive bidding or tender processes for certain products and services, and other changes intended to reduce expenditures along with uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. we are unable to predict whether other healthcare policies, including policies stemming from legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, what effect such policies would have on our business, or what effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. we are subject to federal, state, and foreign laws governing our business practices, which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to, or investigation into, our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and, thus, could harm our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act requires us to track and disclose the source of any tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten used in manufacturing that may originate in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining regions (so called conflict minerals ). these metals are central to the technology industry and are present in some of our products as component parts. in most cases, no acceptable alternative material exists that has the necessary properties. because it is not possible to determine the source of the metals by analysis, we must obtain a good faith description of the source of the intermediate components and raw materials from parties in our supply chain. the components that incorporate those metals may originate from many sources, and we purchase fabricated products from manufacturers who may have a long and difficult-to-trace supply chain. as the spot price of these materials varies, producers of the metal intermediates can be expected to change the mix of sources used. accordingly, components and assemblies we buy may have a mix of sources as their origin. we are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. there can be no assurance that we can obtain this information accurately or reliably, or at all, from intermediate producers who may be unwilling or unable to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. in addition, these metals are subject to price fluctuations and shortages that can affect our ability to obtain the manufactured materials that we rely on at favorable terms or from consistent sources. these changes could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture and market our devices and products. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, prohibit payments or other remuneration that could be considered to induce hospitals, physicians, or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease, order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease, or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid and any other third-party payor programs. further, the ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. 33 table of contents the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. the federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalties laws, including the federal civil false claims act, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs that are false or fraudulent. although we would not submit claims directly to government payors, manufacturers can be held liable under the federal false claim act if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, which created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit, among other things, executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters. similar to the federal anti-kickback statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. these laws may affect our sales, marketing, and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements that we may have with hospitals, physicians, or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal fines and penalties, which can be substantial and include monetary damages and penalties, imprisonment, and exclusion from government healthcare programs for non-compliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to defend and, thus, could harm our business and results of operations. the federal physicians payments sunshine act imposes reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to physicians (including family members), certain other healthcare providers, and teaching hospitals. such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, as well as any transfers of value made to such physician owners and investors, during the preceding calendar year. additionally, on october 25, 2018, president trump signed into law the substance use-disorder prevention that promoted opioid recovery and treatment for patients and communities act which in part (under a provision entitled fighting the opioid epidemic with sunshine ) extends the reporting and transparency requirements for physicians in the physician payments sunshine act to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse midwives (with reporting requirements going into effect in 2022 for payments made in 2021). failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $173,436 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1.156 million per year for knowing failures ) for all payments, transfers of value, or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. device manufacturers are required to submit reports to cms by the 90th day of each calendar year. in addition, there has been increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. certain states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices, and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians or marketing expenditures and pricing information. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance with one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties. compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our ous operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the u.s. and/or abroad. these numerous, and sometimes conflicting, laws and regulations include u.s. laws, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. our operations are subject to certain antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the u.s. and the eu. these laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. if any of our commercial agreements or practices are found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. we may also be subject to third-party claims for damages. further, agreements that infringe upon these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. if we are unable to enforce our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected. 34 table of contents we are also subject to claims, lawsuits, and government investigations involving labor and employment. such claims, lawsuits, and government investigations are inherently uncertain. regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory review process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory authorizations, we will not be able to sell our products in the u.s. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s. by the fda. the fda regulates the development and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, sales, distribution, and post-market support and medical device reporting in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market products for use in the u.s., we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food drug and cosmetic act ( ffdca ). clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered ( pre-amendment ) status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application ( pma ) for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the u.s. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. a pma is typically a much more complex, lengthy, and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. in some cases, such studies may be requested for a 510(k) as well. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, either of which could delay or preclude the sale of new products in the u.s. moreover, we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, in which case the fda may not grant us necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products that we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, the fda or other regulatory agencies may change their policies, adopt additional regulations, revise existing regulations, or take other actions that may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis. we may be found non-compliant as a result of future changes in, or interpretations of, regulations by the fda or other regulatory agencies. over the last several years, the fda has proposed reforms to its 510(k) clearance process, and such proposals could include increased requirements for clinical data and a longer review period, or could make it more difficult for manufacturers to utilize the 510(k) clearance process for their products. for example, in november 2018, fda officials announced forthcoming steps that the fda intends to take to modernize the premarket notification pathway under section 510(k) of the ffdca. among other things, the fda announced that it plans to develop proposals to drive manufacturers utilizing the 510(k) pathway toward the use of newer predicates. these proposals include plans to potentially sunset certain older devices that were used as predicates under the 510(k) clearance pathway, and to potentially publish a list of devices that have been cleared on the basis of demonstrated substantial equivalence to predicate devices that are more than 10 years old. in may 2019, the fda solicited public feedback on these proposals. these proposals have not yet been finalized or adopted, and the fda may work with congress to implement such proposals through legislation. accordingly, it is unclear the extent to which any proposals, if adopted, could impose additional regulatory requirements on us that could delay our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances, increase the costs of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances, or otherwise create competition that may negatively affect our business. more recently, in september 2019, the fda finalized guidance describing an optional safety and performance based premarket review pathway for manufacturers of certain, well-understood device types to demonstrate substantial equivalence under the 510(k) clearance pathway by showing that such device meets objective safety and performance criteria established by the fda, thereby obviating the need for manufacturers to compare the safety and performance of their medical devices to specific predicate devices in the clearance process. the fda intends to develop and maintain a list device types appropriate for the safety and performance based pathway and will continue to develop product-specific guidance documents that identify the performance criteria for each such device type, as well as the testing methods recommended in the guidance documents, where feasible. the fda may establish performance criteria for classes of devices for which we or our competitors seek or currently have received clearance, and it is unclear the extent to which such performance standards, if established, could impact our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances or otherwise create competition that may negatively affect our business. we also cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation, administrative, or executive action. for example, certain policies of the current u.s. administration may impact our business 35 table of contents and industry. namely, the current u.s. administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of executive orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, the fda's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities, such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications. it is difficult to predict how these requirements will be implemented and the extent to which they will impact the fda's ability to exercise its regulatory authority. if these executive actions impose constraints on the fda's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a medical device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board ( irb ) approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption ( ide ) application. many of our products to date have been or would be considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the u.s. for any new devices that we intend to market in the u.s. in the future. if we do obtain such approvals, we may not be able to conduct studies which comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. certainty that clinical trials will meet desired endpoints, produce meaningful or useful data, and be free of unexpected adverse effects or that the fda will accept the validity of foreign clinical study data cannot be assured, and such uncertainty could preclude or delay market clearance or authorizations resulting in significant financial costs and reduced revenue. in addition, some products may be regulated by the fda as drugs, biologics, or combination devices, which carry still greater requirements for clinical trials, regulatory submissions, and approvals. complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous quality and post-market regulatory requirements apply, including the following: continued compliance to the qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation, and other quality assurance procedures during the development and manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda's general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; stringent complaint reporting and medical device reporting ( mdr ) regulations, which require that manufacturers keep detailed records of investigations or complaints against their devices and report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; adequate use of the corrective and preventive actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant, systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest the same; and the reporting of corrections and removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from inspectional observations (form fda 483) to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions, including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products. the fda has, in the past, issued and could, in the future, issue warning letters or other communications to us. if we fail to satisfy or remediate the matters discussed in any such warning letters or communications, the fda could take further enforcement action, including prohibiting the sale or marketing of the affected product. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the receipt of a warning letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain fda-issued certificates to foreign government ( cfgs ) used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries. the fda also strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion, and other activities relating to the marketing of our products. medical devices may be promoted only for their cleared or approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the cleared or approved label. it is possible that federal or state enforcement authorities might take action if they 36 table of contents consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under a variety of statutory authorities, including under the ffdca as well as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. in addition, any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance. we have created labeling, advertising, and user training for the da vinci surgical system to describe specific surgical procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) indications for use stated in our 510(k) clearances. although we have relied on expert in-house and external staff, consultants, and advisors, some of whom were formerly employed by the fda and are familiar with the fda perspective, we cannot provide assurance that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. from time to time, we modify our products, including the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system, after we obtain 510(k) clearance from the fda for the devices in ways that we do not believe require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot provide assurance that the fda would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. if the fda disagrees with our assessments that a new 510(k) clearance was not required prior to commercializing the devices with these changes or modifications, then the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. we have a wholly owned manufacturing facility located in mexicali, mexico, which manufactures reusable and disposable surgical instruments. this facility is registered with the fda as well as with mexican authorities. the facility is operated under u.s. and international quality system regulations, including those applicable to canada, the eu, and japan among others. our wholly owned manufacturing facility in mexicali, mexico has an fda establishment registration but has not been inspected by the fda to date. if the fda were to identify non-conformances in our product documentation or quality system compliance, it could hold indefinitely the importation of instruments at the border, which would deprive us of the ability to sell and supply the majority of our customers until the fda requirements have been satisfied. similar supply disruptions could occur if key suppliers outside of the u.s. were to encounter non-conformances with their documentation or quality system compliance. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to sell our products in foreign countries. to be able to sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries, which may differ substantially from those of the u.s. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products or obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. in particular, if the fda refuses to provide cfgs, our ability to register products or renew such registrations may be delayed or denied. the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec), as amended, to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the authorization to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes and products meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and have maintained this authorization continuously since that time. from time to time, we seek the authorization to affix the ce mark to new or modified products. subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our notified body, presafe. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we are subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark authorizations we have already obtained, including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives. we cannot be certain that we will be able to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations that we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu and many affiliated countries that accept the ce mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some member states of the eu have additional requirements for registration and notification, which may add to the time and effort to obtain market access. in addition, the regulations applied to end users of our products may increase over time, forcing us to provide additional solutions to regulations that do not apply directly to us but which apply indirectly, as they may limit our customers' ability to use our products. 37 table of contents in may 2017, the eu medical device regulation was implemented to replace the medical device directive (93/42/eec), as amended. the medical device regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants notified bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification, or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. further, switzerland, which is the country from which we import our products into the eu and where our eu regulatory team is based, has not yet entered into a mutual recognition agreement with the eu that covers the medical device regulation and allows medical devices to move freely between switzerland and the eu. therefore, we may be required to adjust the manner in which we bring our products into the eu market. any such adjustments could cause temporary disruptions in and have adverse financial implications to our business in europe. to date, we received approvals from the japanese ministry of health, labor and welfare ( mhlw ) for our da vinci s, si, xi, and x surgical systems and various associated instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci procedures. we may seek additional approvals for other products and/or indications; however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, because not all of our instruments have received product approvals and reimbursement is an additional process to generate market acceptance, it is possible that procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. in april 2012 and april 2016, we have received reimbursement approval for prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy, respectively. an additional 12 procedures were granted reimbursement for japan in april 2018, including gastrectomy, anterior resection, lobectomy, and hysterectomy, for both malignant and benign conditions. these additional 12 reimbursed procedures have varying levels of conventional laparoscopic penetration and will be reimbursed at rates equal to the conventional laparoscopic procedures. given the reimbursement level and laparoscopic penetration for these procedures, there can be no assurance that adoption will occur or that the adoption pace for these procedures will be similar to any other da vinci procedures. there are multiple pathways to obtain reimbursement for procedures including those that require in-country clinical data and which are considered for reimbursed status in april of even-numbered years. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. our capital sales in china are subject to importation authorizations and purchasing tender processes. in october 2018, the china national health commission published on its official website the quota for major medical equipment to be imported and sold in china through 2020. the government will allow the sale of 154 new surgical robots into china, which could include da vinci surgical systems. future system sales and our ability to grow future procedure volumes are dependent on the completion of these purchasing tender authorizations. the timing and magnitude of these future authorizations, which may determine our system placements in future years, is not certain, and we expect to continue to experience variability in the timing of capital sales in china. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state, or other manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, import/export of our products, and/or recall some products, which would result in significant product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities, and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the fda and other regulatory agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr and other regulatory requirements. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization ( iso ) quality system standards as well as european directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in the eu. in addition, many countries, such as canada and japan, have very specific additional regulatory requirements for quality assurance and manufacturing. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements, as well as iso or other regulatory standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we continue to be subject to fda and certain other inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. we started participating in the medical device single audit program ( mdsap ), which allows an mdsap-recognized auditing organization to conduct a single regulatory audit of a medical device manufacturer that evaluates the company's quality system to confirm compliance with the requirements of multiple regulatory jurisdictions, including the u.s., japan, brazil, australia, and canada. the information will be shared and reviewed amongst all the regulatory authorities in the mdsap, who may or may not determine that additional information or auditing is required. 38 table of contents our sunnyvale, california facility is licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we have been subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services food and drug branch and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship some products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in 2012, the state of california announced suspension of routine inspections, but this policy could be modified or inspections could be resumed for specific circumstances. in addition, both our sunnyvale, california and mexicali, mexico facilities are subject to periodic inspections by other regulatory bodies, including third-party auditors on behalf of national regulatory authorities. compliance with multiple regulatory standards is complex, difficult, and costly to maintain, and material deficiencies could result in significant limitations on our ability to manufacture, transport, and sell our products in one or more countries. if hospitals and other surgery facilities do not continue to meet federal, state, or other regulatory standards, they may be required to temporarily cease all or part of their da vinci utilization. our global customers are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. our customers are required to comply with applicable local and international regulations, including with respect to the reprocessing of da vinci instruments and accessories. hospitals may not follow cleaning and sterilization instructions properly, or equipment used for cleaning and sterilization may malfunction or be used improperly. if our customers deviate from cleaning and sterilization instructions, regulatory authorities may require them to suspend use of da vinci surgical systems. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to fully protect and successfully defend our intellectual property from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success depends in part on obtaining patent protection for the proprietary technologies contained in our products and on successfully defending our patents against infringing products and/or services in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent oppositions, reviews, or reexaminations. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our patent rights. we do not know whether we will be successful in obtaining the desired patent protection for our new proprietary technologies or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable when challenged. the success of defending our proprietary rights can be highly uncertain, because it involves complex and often evolving legal issues and procedures that are dependent on the particular facts of each case. in addition to patents, we also rely on other intellectual property rights, such as trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws to protect proprietary technologies. we further utilize nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions as well as technical measures to protect our proprietary technologies. nevertheless, these measures may be inadequate in protecting our technologies. if these measures are proved to be inadequate in protecting our technologies, our competitive advantages may be reduced. moreover, we may not have adequate remedies for potential breaches by employees, consultants, and others who participate in developing our proprietary technologies against their agreements with us regarding intellectual property. as a result, our trade secrets may be lost. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal to or superior to our technologies without infringing any of our intellectual property, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. as foreign markets become more significant in revenue for us, our foreign operations and strategic alliances with foreign entities will likely increase. our exposure to risks associated with these operations requires us to increase our reliance on protecting our intellectual property against infringing products and/or services in markets outside the u.s. the laws and judicial systems in these countries may introduce yet another level of uncertainty to our effort to obtain the desired protection as well as defending our rights. others may be successful in asserting that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to pay substantial damages and/or enjoin us from commercializing our products. as we continue to introduce and commercialize new products and technologies, there may be u.s. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our products. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable, and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot be certain that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses that we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability, or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition, other parties may have filed 39 table of contents or will file patent applications covering products that are similar to or identical to ours. we cannot be certain that patents issuing from our own patent application covering our products will have a priority date over any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party. the medical device industry has experienced extensive intellectual property litigation and administrative proceedings. if third parties assert infringement claims or institute administrative proceedings against us, our technical and management personnel will need to spend significant time and effort, and we will incur large expenses in defending these attacks. we cannot be certain that we will prevail in infringement, invalidity, or unenforceability claims against us. if plaintiffs in patent administrative proceedings are successful, our patent portfolio may be adversely affected. if plaintiffs in any patent action are successful, we may be enjoined from selling our products, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, or we may be required to obtain a license that requires us to pay substantial royalties. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. there is no assurance that we can obtain licenses on acceptable terms or at all. the license agreements we have entered into with several industry partners may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms or at all. the failure to obtain or maintain the licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts' or investors' expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to maintain or grow our revenue. our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast, because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products achieve and maintain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third-party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is possible that, in future periods, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock and the value of your investment will likely decline. 40 table of contents our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and may fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2017, it reached a high of $403.70 and a low of $209.83; during fiscal 2018, it reached a high of $574.74 and a low of $375.25; and during fiscal 2019, it reached a high of $598.81 and a low of $450.24. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; variations in operating results and financial guidance; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals and enforcement actions; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts; changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; litigation; media coverage, whether accurate or inaccurate, fair or misleading; political uncertainties; short sales on shares of our common stock or other activities by short sellers; and our stock repurchase program. in addition, stock markets generally have experienced, and in the future may experience significant price and volume volatility. this volatility has a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. further, the securities of many medical device companies, including us, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, it may have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange risk. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market value of our investments. our investment portfolio includes both domestic and international investments. the credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity concerns, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, or other factors. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could fluctuate substantially. our other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of investments, impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments, changes in interest rates, increases or decreases in cash balances, volatility in foreign exchange rates, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investments may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. while we have not realized any significant losses on our cash equivalents or marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products, and our reputation may suffer. our success depends on the quality and reliability of our products. while we subject components sourced and products manufactured to stringent quality specifications and processes, our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and computer software, any of which may contain errors or exhibit failures, especially when products are first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, we and our customers have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products. although our products are subject to stringent quality processes and controls, we cannot provide assurance that our products will not experience component aging, errors, or performance problems. if we experience product flaws or performance problems, any or all of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. costs associated with product flaws or performance problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to product liability and negligence claims relating to the use of our products and other legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, divert management's attention, and harm our business. we are, and may become, subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings to which we are party, including purported class actions, product liability litigation, and patent litigation, are described in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. consolidated cash flow data years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 1,598.2 $ 1,169.6 $ 1,143.9 investing activities (1,154.4) (1,049.6) 378.7 financing activities (168.4) 126.3 (1,913.1) effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (2.2) (0.1) 2.1 net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 273.2 $ 246.2 $ (388.4) operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2019, net cash provided by operating activities of $1,598 million exceeded our net income of $1,382 million, primarily due to the following reasons: 1. our net income included non-cash charges of $537.9 million, consisting primarily of the following significant items: share-based compensation of $335.8 million; depreciation expense and losses on the disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $160.0 million; and amortization of intangible assets of $43.0 million. 2. the non-cash charges outlined above were partially offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in $321.5 million of cash used by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2019. inventory, including the transfer of equipment from inventory to property, plant, and equipment, increased by $360.5 million, primarily due to the increased number of systems under operating lease and usage-based arrangements and build-up to address the growth in the business as well as to mitigate risks of disruption that could arise from trade, supply, or other matters. prepaid expenses and other assets increased by $116.9 million, primarily due to an increase in leasing, an increase in deferred commissions, and an increase in prepaid taxes, driven by the timing of tax payments. the unfavorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by a $57.4 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits, primarily due to higher headcount, a $38.8 million decrease in accounts receivable, primarily due to the timing of collections, and a $35.5 million increase in deferred revenue, primarily due to the increased volume of sales contracts. 60 table of contents for the year ended december 31, 2018, net cash provided by operating activities of $1,170 million exceeded our net income of $1,125 million, primarily due to the following reasons: 1. our net income included non-cash charges of $428.3 million, consisting primarily of the following significant items: share-based compensation of $261.2 million; depreciation expense and losses on the disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $108.6 million; deferred income taxes of $31.9 million; amortization of intangible assets of $14.2 million; and amortization of contract acquisitions assets of $10.6 million. 2. the non-cash charges outlined above were partially offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in $383.7 million of cash used in operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2018. inventory, including the transfer of equipment from inventory to property, plant, and equipment, increased by $279.0 million, primarily due to the increased number of systems under operating lease arrangements and build-up to address the growth in the business as well as to mitigate risks of disruption that could arise from trade, supply, or other matters. accounts receivable increased by $161.3 million, primarily due to higher customer billings and timing of billings and collections. prepaid expenses and other assets increased by $77.7 million. the unfavorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by a $54.3 million increase in deferred revenue, a $37.1 million increase in other accrued liabilities, and a $26.2 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits. investing activities net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2019, consisted of purchases of investments (net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments) of $669.1 million, the acquisition of property and equipment of $425.6 million, and the acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired, of $59.7 million. net cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2018, consisted of purchases of investments (net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments) of $774.3 million, the acquisition of property and equipment of $187.4 million, and the acquisition of businesses of $87.9 million. net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2017, consisted of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments (net of purchases of investments) of $569.4 million, partially offset by the acquisition of property and equipment of $190.7 million. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may, at any time, contain investments in u.s. treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and tax-exempt municipal notes, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, non-u.s. government agency securities, cash deposits, and money market funds. financing activities net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2019, consisted primarily of cash used in the repurchase of approximately 0.6 million shares of our common stock in the open market for $269.5 million and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlements of vested employee equity awards of $159.1 million, partially offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $272.8 million. net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2018, consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $236.6 million, partially offset by taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlements of vested employee equity awards of $120.0 million. net cash used in financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2017, consisted primarily of $2.3 billion related to an accelerated share buyback program executed and settled during 2017 and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlements of vested employee equity awards of $56.6 million, partially offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $415.5 million. capital expenditures our business is not capital equipment intensive. however, with the growth of our business and our investments in property and facilities and in manufacturing automation, capital investments in these areas have increased. we expect these capital investments to exceed $400 million in each of the next two years. we intend to fund these needs with cash generated from operations. our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products, and other factors. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products. we have made substantial investments in our commercial operations, product development activities, facilities, and intellectual property. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. 61 table of contents contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of december 31, 2019 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years operating leases (note 6) $ 87.7 $ 9.6 $ 34.5 $ 21.2 $ 22.4 purchase commitments and obligations 844.7 805.6 37.7 1.4 tax cuts and jobs act toll tax (note 11) 225.2 21.4 42.9 93.9 67.0 total $ 1,157.6 $ 836.6 $ 115.1 $ 116.5 $ 89.4 operating leases. we lease spaces for operations in the u.s. as well as in japan, mexico, china, south korea, and other foreign countries. we also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. these leases have varying terms up to 15 years. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all of our non-cancellable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. refer to note 6 for further details. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for which we have not received the goods or services, commitments for capital expenditures and construction-related activities for which we have not received the services, and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration, and development arrangements. payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory, and/or commercial milestones. for instances in which the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and have not been included in the table above. tax cuts and jobs act toll tax. as of december 31, 2019, our obligation associated with the deemed repatriation toll charge is $225.2 million, which is expected to be paid in installments. refer to note 11 for further details. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2019, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. 62 table of contents critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ), which requires us to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while supporting the company's liquidity requirements. to achieve this objective, we maintain a diversified portfolio of cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries, u.s. government agencies, corporate debt, cash deposits, money market funds, commercial paper, non-u.s. government agency securities, and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds. the securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. the weighted average duration of our portfolio as of december 31, 2019, was approximately 1.0 years. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $13.5 million as of december 31, 2019. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. uncertain financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we generally sell our products and services in local currencies where we have direct distribution channels. we operate in a number of markets on a direct sales basis and incur operating expenses in local currencies. we also purchase certain product components from non-u.s. suppliers in local currency. as a result, because a portion of our operations consist of sales activities outside of the u.s., we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s. dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and foreign currency bank balances. for the year ended december 31, 2019, sales denominated in foreign currencies were approximately 20% of total revenue. the objective of our hedging program is to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. for the year ended december 31, 2019, our revenue would have decreased by approximately $53.5 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate strengthened by 10%. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies to which we have exposure, after considering foreign currency hedges and offsetting positions as of december 31, 2019, would have resulted in an approximately $2.8 million increase in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. to mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. we monitor credit ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust our exposure to various counterparties. although we sell to distributors outside of the u.s. in u.s. dollars, strengthening of the dollar can impact our distributors' margins and could impact the end customers' ability to purchase our product if our distributors seek to recover the impact of the change in the dollar by increasing product and service prices. less than 10% of our revenue is conducted through distributors outside the u.s. strengthening of the dollar relative to non-u.s. currencies could have an adverse impact on our business. our operations outside of the u.s. are subject to risks typical of operations outside of the u.s. including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 67 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43risk factors 20 risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, hospitals will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors products or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a new technology that will compete with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options may take the form of traditional minimally invasive surgery, open surgery, interventional approaches, or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will be competitive with current or future technologies. in addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. we experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and generally requires the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. these factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. in addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. 20 table of contents international sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our international activities. our business currently depends in part on our activities in europe and other foreign markets. sales to markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 17%, 21%, and 24% of our sales for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. these challenges include: failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. currently, more than half of our international sales are denominated in united states dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components and computer software, any of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems. we cannot assure you that our products will not experience errors or performance problems in the future. if we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. the use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, divert management attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims. the medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products 21 table of contents were to cause injury or death. there is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also be subject to product liability lawsuits. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. a product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. product liability claims have been made against our company in the past. a product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm our reputation or result in a decline in revenues. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our profitability. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. domestic institutions will typically bill the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors policies do not permit reimbursement for surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for reimbursement through government- sponsored health care payment 22 table of contents systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. recent changes in the required accounting treatment for stock options will have a material adverse impact on our net income and net income per share and may adversely affect our stock price. in december 2004, the financial accounting standards board issued sfas no. 123 (revised 2004) share based payment, or sfas 123r, pursuant to which we must measure all stock-based compensation awards, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair value-based method and record such expense in our consolidated financial statements. this requirement to expense stock-based compensation awards is effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after june 15, 2005. accordingly, sfas 123r will be effective for us starting january 1, 2006 . our net income and our earnings per share will be significantly reduced or may reflect a loss. we currently calculate stock-based compensation expense using the black-scholes option-pricing model and disclose the pro forma impact on net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share in our consolidated financial statements. a fair value based model such as the black-scholes option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions and does not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of stock options. assumptions used under the black-scholes option-pricing model that are highly subjective include the expected stock price volatility and expected life of an option. the actual impact on our results of operations upon adoption of the new standard could be significantly different from the pro forma information included in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements due to variations in estimates and assumptions used in the calculation. these assumptions will require management to predict the future stock performance and employees stock option exercise behavior, which are beyond management control. management will apply our best judgement in making the assumptions. however, the actual stock based compensation expense upon adoption of the new standard could be significantly different from the pro forma information. risks relating to our regulatory environment our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda. the fda regulates the research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, distribution and production of medical devices in the united states to ensure that 23 table of contents medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, or ffdca. clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application, or pma, for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the u.s. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the united states. furthermore, the fda may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. the fda may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a pma, which is typically a much more complex and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, or the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board, or irb, approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption, or ide, application. most of our products to date have been considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the u.s. for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. complying with fda regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: quality system regulation, or qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; 24 table of contents the reports of corrections and removals regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health; and the medical device reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a regulatory letter to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have modified the labeling; advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to call out specific procedures that we believe are within the scope of our existing 510(k) clearances. we cannot assure you that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. we also have modified the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system since clearance in ways that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure you that the fda would agree with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. computer motion also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. we cannot assure you that the fda would agree with the determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or computer motion products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. in december 2002, the fda inspected our sunnyvale manufacturing facility and issued a form fda 483 setting forth three observed compliance deficiencies relating to the qsr and two observed deficiencies relating to the reports of corrections and removals regulation. in january 2003, we wrote to the fda indicating our response to each observation with proposed corrective actions. that same month, the fda informed us that the adequacy of our promised corrections and actions would be verified during the next inspection of our facility. to date, the fda has not returned for another inspection and we continue to evaluate and upgrade our qsr compliance. we cannot assure you that, upon reinspection, the fda will find that our promised corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure you that the fda will not find other deficiencies in our compliance with the qsr and other postmarket regulations. in june 2003, we acquired computer motion and have integrated its fda compliance quality system into our own. as a result of the integration and review, we identified that computer motion has had deficiencies in complaint handling, mdr reporting and corrections and removals reporting in the last several years that required submission of retroactive reports to the fda. we reported 52 mdrs and we believe that our reporting decisions regarding these 52 complaints is conservative in part because many of the complaints likely would not have been reportable if more information had been available. also, to our knowledge, none of the reported events resulted in a death or serious injury, prolonged hospitalization, or medical intervention to prevent death or serious injury. computer motion did respond to complaint trends, and it addressed the trends through corrective actions. accordingly, the incidence of many of the types of events in the reports had been mitigated by june 2003. our review also suggests that significant complaint trends identified by computer motion over the period of four years were addressed by corrective actions, which have proven to be effective over time. computer motion product modifications were completed without 510(k) clearance and we believe that they do not require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure you that the fda would agree with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. 25 table of contents we cannot assure you that the fda will not seek to impose enforcement actions on us for computer motion violations preceding our acquisition of computer motion, that the fda will agree that since the acquisition we have corrected all regulatory problems, or that our review of computer motion complaint handling will not lead us to initiate recalls or field actions to remedy problems with computer motion products already in the field. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in foreign countries. to be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. if we fail to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. the european union requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the european union. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the right to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we apply for permission to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark permissions we have already obtained. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain permission to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the permissions we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the european union. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or european manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, which would result in product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated by the fda for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the fda quality system regulations, or qsr. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization, or iso, quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in europe. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we are currently in compliance with iso standards. the fda inspected our mountain view and sunnyvale facilities in march 2000 and december 2002, respectively. the good manufacturing practice issues raised by the fda during the inspections either were satisfactorily resolved with the fda, or we believe can be resolved by us to the fda satisfaction, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. we continue to be subject to fda inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. 26 table of contents as required, we are licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we are subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship any products. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if they do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be united states and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to computer-assisted surgery, remote surgery, and minimally invasive surgery. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present technology, and may cover aspects of our future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot assure you that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or noninfringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent 27 table of contents applications covering surgical products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure you that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with brookhill-wilk, llc. , hansen medical, inc., heartport, inc., now part of johnson &amp; johnson, ibm corporation, medtronic, inc., mit, olympus optical co., ltd. and sri international. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements is terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts or investors expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; 28 table of contents our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies, including expensing stock options in accordance with statement of financial accounting standard (sfas) no. 123r, shared-based payment; and economic changes and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including intuitive surgical, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are not subject to any meaningful market risks related to currency, commodity prices or similar matters. we are sensitive to short-term interest rate fluctuations to the extent that such fluctuations impact the interest income we receive on the investment of our cash and cash equivalents and investments. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities that we invest in may have market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the fair value amount of our investment will probably decline. to minimize this risk in the future, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and investments in a variety of securities. we classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities as fixed-rate if the rate of return on such instruments remains fixed over their term. these fixed-rate investments include commercial paper and government and non-government debt securities. we classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities as variable-rate if the rate of return on such investments varies based on the change in a predetermined index or set of indices during their term. these variable-rate investments primarily include auction-rate securities with rates that re-set generally every 30 days. the weighted-average maturity of all of our fixed-rate and variable-rate investments as of december 31, 2005 was approximately one year. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, approximately 63% and 47%, respectively, of our fixed-rate and variable-rate investment portfolio was composed of investments with maturities of one year or less. the following table presents the amounts of our investments that may be subject to interest rate risk and the weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity ($ in thousands): as of december 31, 2005 as of december 31, 2004 weighted average interest rate fair value weighted average interest rate fair value variable rate securities 4.30 % $ 52,900 2.46 % $ 40,650 marketable securities fixed rate (mature in 2005) $ 2.85 % $ 21,250 fixed rate (mature in 2006) 2.95 % $ 70,779 2.93 % $ 48,282 fixed rate (mature in 2007) 3.80 % $ 50,274 3.01 % $ 15,085 fixed rate (mature in 2008) 4.21 % $ 23,278 3.77 % $ 1,000 the above securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded on the balance sheet at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of stockholders equity. unrealized losses are charged against income when a decline in fair market value is determined to be other-than-temporary. the specific identification method is used to determine the cost of securities sold. the investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value in the event market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis points from levels as of december 31, 2005, the fair market value of the portfolio would decline by approximately $1.3 million. the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of sales activities outside of the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the euro. for 2005, 2004 and 2003, sales denominated in foreign currencies were 9%, 8% and 12%, respectively, of total sales. foreign currency fluctuations resulted in a loss of $0.6 million, and gains of $0.2 million and $0.4 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. 44 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, hospitals will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors products or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a new technology that will compete with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options may take the form of traditional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will be competitive with current or future technologies. in addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. as a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. 20 table of contents we experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and generally requires the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. these factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. in addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. international sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our international activities. our business currently depends in part on our activities in europe and other foreign markets. revenue to markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 17%, 17%, and 21% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. these challenges include: failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. currently, more than half of our international sales are denominated in united states dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components and computer software, any of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems. we cannot assure that our products will not experience errors or performance problems in the future. if we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; 21 table of contents diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. the use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, divert management attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims. the medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause injury or death. there is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also be subject to product liability lawsuits. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. a product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. product liability claims have been made against our company in the past. a product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm our reputation or result in a decline in revenues. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our profitability. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays 22 table of contents associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. domestic institutions will typically bill the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors policies do not permit reimbursement for surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for reimbursement through government-sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment ( sfas 123(r) ) is a new standard and the application thereof is subject to interpretation. our application of sfas 123(r) may not be consistent with other companies or industry practice, and we may modify our application of sfas 123(r) in the future, which could further affect our reported results of operations. 23 table of contents in june 2006, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued fasb interpretation no. 48 (fin 48), accounting for uncertainty in income taxes , an interpretation of statement of financial accounting standards no. 109, accounting for income taxes . the interpretation contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with sfas no. 109. the provisions are effective for us as of january 1, 2007 and its adoption may have significant impact to our results of operations. we are currently evaluating the impact this statement will have on our consolidated financial statements. risks relating to our regulatory environment our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda. the fda regulates the research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, distribution and production of medical devices in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, or ffdca. clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application, or pma, for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the u.s. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the united states. furthermore, the fda may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. the fda may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a pma, which is typically a much more complex and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, or the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board, or irb, approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption, or ide, application. most of our products to date have been considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the u.s. for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support 24 table of contents clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. complying with fda regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: quality system regulation, or qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; the reports of corrections and removals regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health; and the medical device reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a regulatory letter to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have modified the labeling; advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to call out specific procedures that we believe are within the scope of our existing 510(k) clearances. we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. we also have modified the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system since clearance in ways that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. computer motion also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree with the determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or computer motion products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. in january 2007, fda concluded an inspection of our sunnyvale manufacturing facility and issued a list of observations (form 483) setting forth five observed deficiencies under the qsr relating to nonconforming product, corrective and preventive actions, complaint handling and supplier management. the form 483 also set forth two observed deficiencies one relating to the failure to report field corrections or recalls to the fda that the fda believed should have been reported under the reports of corrections and removals regulation and another for failure to file mdr within 30 days. in february 2007, we responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. we believe that our proposed corrective actions are appropriate to address the observed deficiencies. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our promised corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure that the fda will not find other deficiencies in our compliance with the qsr and other postmarket regulations. 25 table of contents in june 2003, we acquired computer motion and have integrated its fda compliance quality system into our own. as a result of the integration and review, we identified that computer motion has had deficiencies in complaint handling, mdr reporting and corrections and removals reporting in the last several years that required submission of retroactive reports to the fda. we reported 52 mdrs and we believe that our reporting decisions regarding these 52 complaints is conservative in part because many of the complaints likely would not have been reportable if more information had been available. also, to our knowledge, none of the reported events resulted in a death or serious injury, prolonged hospitalization, or medical intervention to prevent death or serious injury. computer motion did respond to complaint trends, and it addressed the trends through corrective actions. accordingly, the incidence of many of the types of events in the reports had been mitigated by june 2003. our review also suggests that significant complaint trends identified by computer motion over the period of four years were addressed by corrective actions, which have proven to be effective over time. computer motion product modifications were completed without 510(k) clearance and we believe that they do not require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. we cannot assure that the fda will not seek to impose enforcement actions on us for computer motion violations preceding our acquisition of computer motion, that the fda will agree that since the acquisition we have corrected all regulatory problems, or that our review of computer motion complaint handling will not lead us to initiate recalls or field actions to remedy problems with computer motion products already in the field. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in foreign countries. to be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. if we fail to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. the european union requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the european union. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the right to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we apply for permission to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark permissions we have already obtained. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain permission to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the permissions we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the european union. 26 table of contents if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or european manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, which would result in product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated by the fda for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the fda quality system regulations, or qsr. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization, or iso, quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in europe. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we are currently in compliance with iso standards. the fda inspected our mountain view in march 2000 and our sunnyvale facilities in december 2002 and december 2006. the good manufacturing practice issues raised by the fda during the inspections either were satisfactorily resolved with the fda, or we believe can be resolved by us to the fda satisfaction, although we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. we continue to be subject to fda inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. as required, we are licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we are subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship any products. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if they do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our 27 table of contents intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be united states and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to computer-assisted surgery, remote surgery, and minimally invasive surgery. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present technology, and may cover aspects of our future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. in january 2007, the california institute of technology filed a patent infringement suit against our company in the united states district court for the eastern district of texas. we believe the lawsuit is without merit and have filed an action in the united states district court for the northern district of california seeking a declaration that we do not infringe the caltech patents. we intend to vigorously defend our company in this matter. we cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or noninfringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering surgical products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with brookhill-wilk, llc., hansen medical, inc., heartport, inc., now part of johnson &amp; johnson, ibm corporation, medtronic, inc., mit, olympus optical co., ltd., sensable technologies and sri international. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements is terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products. 28 table of contents risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts or investors expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies, including expensing stock options in accordance with sfas123(r); and economic changes and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including intuitive surgical, have historically been subject to 29 table of contents extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of securities, including government and corporate securities and money market funds. these securities are classified as available for sale and consequently are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). all investments mature within approximately 1.3 years from the date of purchase. our holdings of the securities of any one issuer, except government agencies, do not exceed 10% of the portfolio. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $0.6 million and $0.4 million as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. 45 table of contents foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of sales activities outside of the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the euro. our foreign operations also incur most of their expenses in the local currency. for the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, sales denominated in foreign currencies were 8%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of total revenue. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. an adverse change in exchange rates by 10% for the euro as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of approximately $1.9 million and $1.0 for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 46 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, hospitals will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors products or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include traditional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. in addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. general economic conditions may cause our customers to delay buying our products resulting in lower revenues. the national economy of the united states and the global economy are both subject to economic downturns. an economic downturn in any market in which we sell our products may have a significant impact on the ability of our customers to secure adequate funding to buy our products or might cause purchasing decisions to be delayed. our da vinci surgical system typically has a lengthy sales cycle. it is viewed as a major capital item by our customers, which often requires approval by their senior level managers and/or boards of directors. any delay in purchasing our products may result in decreased revenues and also allow our competitors additional time to develop products that may have a competitive edge, making future sales of our products more difficult. 21 table of contents index to financial statements new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. as a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and generally requires the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. these factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. in addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. international sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our international activities. our business currently depends in part on our activities in europe and other foreign markets. revenue to markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 22%, 17%, and 17% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. these challenges include: failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. a large portion of our international sales are denominated in united states dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. 22 table of contents index to financial statements if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components and computer software, any of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems. we cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors or performance problems in the future. if we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. the use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, divert management attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims. the medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause injury or death. there is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also be subject to product liability lawsuits. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. a product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. product liability claims have been made against our company in the past. a product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm our reputation or result in a decline in revenues. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. 23 table of contents index to financial statements if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our profitability. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. domestic institutions will typically bill the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors policies do not permit reimbursement for surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for reimbursement through government- sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given 24 table of contents index to financial statements the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in california, a seismically active region. a natural disaster in any of our major markets in north america or europe could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. on january 1, 2006, we adopted statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment ( sfas 123(r) ). our application of sfas 123(r) may not be consistent with other companies or industry practice, and we may modify our application of sfas 123(r) in the future, which could further affect our reported results of operations. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. for example, the calculation of share-based compensation expense under sfas 123(r), requires us to use valuation methodologies and a number of assumptions, estimates, and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price, and the exercise behavior of our employees. changes in any of our assumptions in the calculation of share-based compensation expense could impact our gross margin percentage; selling, general and administrative expense; research and development expenses; and our tax rate. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may harm our future effective tax rates including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; 25 table of contents index to financial statements changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could harm net income for future periods. risks relating to our regulatory environment our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda. the fda regulates the research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, distribution and production of medical devices in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, or ffdca. clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application, or pma, for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the u.s. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the united states. furthermore, the fda may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. the fda may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a pma, which is typically a much more complex and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, or the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board, or irb, approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption, or ide, application. most of our products to date have been considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the u.s. for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to comply with the 26 table of contents index to financial statements ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. complying with fda regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: quality system regulation, or qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; the reports of corrections and removals regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health; and the medical device reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a regulatory letter to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have modified the labeling; advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to call out specific procedures that we believe are within the scope of our existing 510(k) clearances. we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. we also have modified the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system since clearance in ways that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. computer motion also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree with the determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or computer motion products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. in january 2007, fda concluded an inspection of our sunnyvale manufacturing facility and issued a list of observations (form 483) setting forth some observed deficiencies under the qsr relating to handling of nonconforming product, corrective and preventive actions, complaint handling, supplier management, reporting of correction and removals and mdr report filing timing. in february 2007, we responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. in an october 2007 enforcement report from fda, the fda reported on two voluntary corrections and removals conducted by us for our systems. we have addressed these issues through field inspections and corrections using our field service organization. as part of our quality system, we take a proactive approach in upgrading software in our field systems routinely and in monitoring system performance. these actions are reviewed by fda and are periodically reported if they meet certain criteria for public 27 table of contents index to financial statements reporting. we believe our quality systems are functioning properly and we continue to work with fda and agencies worldwide to satisfy their reporting requirements. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure that the fda will not find other deficiencies in our compliance with the qsr and other postmarket regulations. in june 2003, we acquired computer motion and have integrated its fda compliance quality system into our own. as a result of the integration and review, we identified that computer motion has had deficiencies in complaint handling, mdr reporting and corrections and removals reporting in the last several years that required submission of retroactive reports to the fda. we reported 52 mdrs and we believe that our reporting decisions regarding these 52 complaints is conservative in part because many of the complaints likely would not have been reportable if more information had been available. also, to our knowledge, none of the reported events resulted in a death or serious injury, prolonged hospitalization, or medical intervention to prevent death or serious injury. computer motion did respond to complaint trends, and it addressed the trends through corrective actions. accordingly, the incidence of many of the types of events in the reports had been mitigated by june 2003. our review also suggests that significant complaint trends identified by computer motion over the period of four years were addressed by corrective actions, which have proven to be effective over time. computer motion product modifications were completed without 510(k) clearance and we believe that they do not require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. we cannot assure that the fda will not seek to impose enforcement actions on us for computer motion violations preceding our acquisition of computer motion, that the fda will agree that since the acquisition we have corrected all regulatory problems, or that our review of computer motion complaint handling will not lead us to initiate recalls or field actions to remedy problems with computer motion products already in the field. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in foreign countries. to be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. the european union requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the european union. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the right to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we apply for permission to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark permissions we have already obtained. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain permission to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the permissions we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the european union. 28 table of contents index to financial statements if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or european manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, which would result in product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated by the fda for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the fda quality system regulations, or qsr. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization, or iso, quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in europe. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we are currently in compliance with iso standards. the fda inspected our mountain view in march 2000 and our sunnyvale facilities in december 2002 and december 2006. the good manufacturing practice issues raised by the fda during the inspections either were satisfactorily resolved with the fda, or we believe can be resolved by us to the fda satisfaction, although we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. we continue to be subject to fda inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. as required, we are licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we are subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship any products. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if they do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our 29 table of contents index to financial statements intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be united states and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to computer-assisted surgery, remote surgery, and minimally invasive surgery. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present technology, and may cover aspects of our future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. in january 2007, the california institute of technology (caltech) filed a patent infringement suit against our company in the united states district court for the eastern district of texas. in december 2007, the parties entered into a license agreement pursuant to which intuitive received a non-exclusive license to certain caltech intellectual property, including the patents at issue in the litigation, and caltech agreed to dismiss the litigation with prejudice. however, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to lawsuits by other third parties in the future. we cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering surgical products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with brookhill-wilk, llc. , hansen medical, inc., heartport, inc., now part of johnson &amp; johnson, ibm corporation, medtronic, inc., mit, olympus optical co., ltd., sensable technologies and sri international. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products. 30 table of contents index to financial statements risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts or investors expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. our product typically has a lengthy sales cycle. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2007, the nasdaq close price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $353.00 and a low of $87.11. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies, including expensing stock options in accordance with sfas123(r); and economic changes and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons 31 table of contents index to financial statements frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including intuitive surgical, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the investment of our substantial cash balance and our investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2007, we had $122.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $512.6 million in investments in marketable debt securities. we have historically invested these amounts in u.s. government agencies, municipal notes which may have an auction reset feature, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, money market funds meeting certain criteria. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by u.s. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. during the year-ended december 31, 2007, we determined that any declines in the fair value of our investments were temporary. there may be further declines in the value of these investments, which we may determine to be other-than-temporary. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. at february 11, 2008, we held approximately $100 million of municipal notes investments, classified as current assets, with an auction reset feature ( auction rate securities ) whose underlying assets are generally student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. in february 2008 auctions failed for $15 million of our auction rate securities and there is no assurance that currently successful auctions on the other auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will continue to succeed and as a result our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. an auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not. all of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failure, are currently rated aaa, the highest rating, by a rating agency. if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. we believe we will be able to liquidate our investment without significant loss within the next year, and we currently believe these securities are not significantly impaired, primarily due to the government guarantee of the underlying securities, however, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 30 years) to realize our investments recorded value. based on our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate the potential lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to execute our current business plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , for a discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in thousands) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 205,687 $ 99,845 $ 70,787 investing activities (236,400 ) (113,353 ) (103,307 ) financing activities 118,847 42,183 32,316 effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 301 207 (59 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 88,435 $ 28,882 $ (263 ) consolidated cash flow data operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2007, cash flow from operations of $205.7 million exceeded our net income of $144.5 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock compensation, taxes, and depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets. these non-cash charges totaled $59.1 million. also included in our net income is approximately $4.1 million of gain on the sale of publicly-traded equity securities which has been classified as an investing activity. 2) we experienced rapid growth in our business with revenues increasing 61% in 2007. however, our net investment in working capital and other operating assets totaled only $2.1 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, other current assets, deferred revenue and other current liabilities. accounts receivable increased $35.7 million or 38% in 2007, reflecting increased revenue and the timing of system sales. inventory increased $8.2 million or 34% in 2007 due to increased sales volume. other assets increased by $6.8 million or 99% in 2007, reflecting the timing of payments. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $17.3 million or 46% in 2007, which is primarily related to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $35.3 million or 79% in 2007, reflecting changes in the volume of our business and timing of vendor payments. for the year ended december 31, 2006, cash flow from operations of $99.8 million exceeded our net income of $72.0 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock compensation, taxes, and depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets. these non-cash charges totaled $56.0 million. 2) we experienced rapid growth in our business with revenues increasing 64% in 2006. this growth required investment in working capital, particularly accounts receivable and inventory. our net investment in working capital and other operating assets totaled $28.2 million. 45 table of contents index to financial statements working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other current liabilities. accounts receivable increased $41.9 million or 79% in 2006 reflecting increased revenue and the timing of system sales. inventory increased $9.0 million or 60% in 2006, slightly less than increased volume. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $11.9 million or 47% in 2006, which is primarily related to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other current liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $11.0 million or 33% in 2006. other accrued liabilities fluctuate with changes in the volume of our business and the timing of vendor payments. for the year ended december 31, 2005, cash flow from operations of $70.8 million was less than our net income of $94.1 million for two primary reasons: 1) we recorded a one-time deferred tax benefit of $22.2 million (see note 9 of the notes to the financial statements). this benefit was non-cash. 2) we experienced rapid growth in our business with revenues increasing 64% in 2005. this growth requires investment in working capital, particularly accounts receivable and inventory. our net investment in working capital and other operating assets totaled $9.7 million. investing activities net cash used in investing activities during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 consisted primarily of purchases of investments (net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments) of $212.4 million, $95.3 million, and $72.3 million, respectively, and purchases of property and equipment and licensing of patents of $24.0 million, $18.1 million, and $31.0 million, respectively. our investments are generally in u.s. government agencies, municipal notes which may have an auction reset feature, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds and generated approximately 5.1% interest in 2007. we are not a capital-intensive business. our purchases of property and equipment in 2007, 2006 and 2005 related mainly to facilities and information technology infrastructure to support capacity expansion in our business. financing activities net cash provided by financing activities in 2007 and 2006 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock options, employee stock purchases and warrants exercises of $56.0 million and $19.1 million, respectively, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $62.9 million and $23.0 million, respectively. net cash flows provided by financing activities in 2005 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock options and warrants exercises of $32.9 million. effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents the positive effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents in 2007 and 2006 was due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar during those periods against other foreign currencies, primarily the euro. the negative effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents in 2005 was due to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar during that period against other foreign currencies, primarily the euro. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. we expect to devote substantial capital resources to continue our research and development efforts, to expand our customer support and product development activities and for other general corporate activities. during 2007, we experienced significant business expansion. we increased revenue by 61%, invested in new facilities, upgraded our information technology systems, and increased our headcount by 36%. in this high growth year, we generated $144.5 million of net income, which represented the major driver of the net cash provided by operating activities in 2007. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash 46 table of contents index to financial statements provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2007 (in thousands): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years operating leases $ 3,287 $ 1,157 $ 2,110 $ 20 purchase commitments and obligations 114,884 106,023 7,611 1,250 purchase of land and building 16,976 16,976 total contractual obligations $ 135,147 $ 124,156 $ 9,721 $ 1,270 operating leases: we lease office spaces in the united states and switzerland and have committed to a lease in mexico beginning fiscal 2008. we also lease automobiles for certain employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of patent rights and patents. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. purchase of land and building. this represents amounts owed on an agreement to purchase a building and land, approximately 7 acres, adjacent to our corporate headquarters in sunnyvale, california and expected costs to vacate existing tenants in that building. we intend to demolish the existing building and construct a multi-use facility with 154,000 square feet of floor space. we do not anticipate completing construction until late 2009. other commitments. effective january 1, 2007, the company adopted the provisions of fin 48. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. see note 9 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. off-balance-sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2007, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k 40. critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, or gaap, which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of securities, including u.s. government agencies, municipal notes which may have an auction reset feature, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds. these securities are classified as available for sale and consequently are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). all investments mature within approximately 2 years from the date of purchase. our holdings of the securities of any one issuer, except government agencies, do not exceed 10% of the portfolio. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $1.1 million as of december 31, 2007. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. at february 11, 2008, we held approximately $100 million of municipal notes investments, classified as current assets, with an auction reset feature ( auction rate securities ) whose underlying assets are generally student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. in february 2008 auctions failed for $15 million of our auction rate securities and there is no assurance that currently successful auctions on the other auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will continue to succeed and as a result our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. an auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not. all of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failure, are currently rated aaa, the highest rating, by a rating agency. if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. we believe we will be able to liquidate our investment without significant loss within the next year, and we currently believe these securities are not significantly impaired, primarily due to the government guarantee of the underlying securities, however, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 30 years) to realize our investments recorded value. based on our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate the potential lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to execute our current business plan. 50 table of contents index to financial statements foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of sales activities outside of the united states, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the euro, and therefore are subject to foreign exchange risk. our foreign operations also incur most of their expenses in the local currency. for the year ended december 31, 2007, sales denominated in foreign currencies were approximately 12%, of total revenue. for the year ended december 31, 2007 our revenue would have decreased by approximately $7.1 million, if the us dollar exchange rate used would have strengthened by 10%. in addition, we have assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. a 10% strengthening of the us dollar exchange rate at december 31, 2007, would have resulted in a $4.1 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. 51 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors 20 risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, hospitals will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could continue to materially adversely affect the company. our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. uncertainty about current global economic conditions pose a risk as customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products. these and other economic factors have impacted our results and may continue to have a significant impact on our financial condition and operating results. the current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that additional financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays and inability of customers, including distributors, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if conditions become more severe or continue longer than we anticipate, our forecasted demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and the market price of our stock. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors products or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include traditional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our 20 table of contents products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. in addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. as a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and generally requires the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. our sales of da vinci surgical systems tend to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter. these factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. in addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. international sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our international activities. our business currently depends in part on our activities in europe and other foreign markets. revenue to markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 22%, 22%, and 17% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. these challenges include: failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. a large portion of our international sales are denominated in united states dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in international markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. 21 table of contents we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. changes in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce profitability. a portion of our revenue and cost is denominated in euros. fluctuations in the euro-u.s. dollar exchange rate can adversely impact our cost of operations. to reduce the risk of unpredictable changes, we may, from time to time, enter into forward foreign exchange contracts. however, due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under these contracts, the forward foreign exchange contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results and in fact may themselves cause financial harm. furthermore, these contracts have inherent levels of counterparty risk over which we have no control. we have not entered into foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2008. subsequent to december 31, 2008, we entered into foreign exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our risk associated with euro exposure. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components and computer software, any of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems. we cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors or performance problems in the future. if we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. the use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, divert management attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims. the medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause injury or death. there is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also be subject to product liability lawsuits. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. a product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. product liability claims have been made against our company in the past. a product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm our reputation or result in a decline in revenues. 22 table of contents we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. domestic institutions will typically bill the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors policies do not permit reimbursement for surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for reimbursement through government- sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. 23 table of contents if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in california, a seismically active region. a natural disaster in any of our major markets in north america or europe could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations a number of factors may harm our future effective tax rates including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could harm net income for future periods. 24 table of contents we may realize losses on our investments in auction rate securities or be unable to liquidate these investments at desired times and in desired amounts. at december 31, 2008, we held $79.1 million in auction rate securities (ars), which we classify as long-term investments. historically, our ars were highly liquid, using a dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined intervals, typically every 28 to 35 days, to provide liquidity at par. however, as a result of liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets, the auctions for all of our ars failed beginning in february 2008 when sell orders exceeded buy orders. of the $79.1 million of ars as of december 31, 2008, approximately $59.6 million is held by ubs ag (ubs) and have been classified as trading securities. accordingly, the changes in associated market value during the year ended december 31, 2008, of approximately $11.6 million has been recorded as a charge to earnings. in november 2008, we accepted an offer from ubs, entitling us to sell at par value auction-rate securities originally purchased from ubs at anytime during a two-year period from june 30, 2010 through july 2, 2012. in accepting the offer, we granted ubs the authority to sell or auction the ars at par at any time up until the expiration date of the offer and released ubs from any claims relating to the marketing and sale of ars. in lieu of our acceptance of the offer, ars will continue to accrue and pay interest as determined by the auction process or the terms specified in the prospectus of the ars if the auction process fails. ubs obligations under the offer are not secured by its assets and do not require ubs to obtain any financing to support its performance obligations under the offer. ubs has disclaimed any assurance that it will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its obligations under the offer. if ubs has insufficient funding to buy back the ars and the auction process continues to fail, then we may incur further losses on the carrying value of the ars. the remaining ars is held by another investment advisor, who has not made an offer similar to ubs and we have continued to classify them as available-for-sale securities. accordingly, changes in associated market value during the year ended december 31, 2008 have been recorded through other comprehensive income. if the market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income or impairment charges. we may not be able to liquidate these investments unless the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. risks relating to our regulatory environment our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda. the fda regulates the research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, distribution and production of medical devices in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, or ffdca. clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application, or pma, for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the u.s. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. 25 table of contents the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the united states. furthermore, the fda may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. the fda may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a pma, which is typically a much more complex and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, or the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board, or irb, approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption, or ide, application. most of our products to date have been considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the u.s. for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. complying with fda regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: quality system regulation, or qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; the reports of corrections and removals regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health; and the medical device reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a regulatory letter to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal 26 table of contents sanctions. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have modified the labeling; advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to call out specific procedures that we believe are within the scope of our existing 510(k) clearances. we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. we also have modified the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system since clearance in ways that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. computer motion also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree with the determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or computer motion products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. our last inspection occurred in april 2008 and issued a form fda 483 listing deficiencies under the qsr relating to complaint handling and supplier management. we believe our quality systems are functioning properly and we continue to work with fda and agencies worldwide to satisfy their reporting requirements. we later responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure that the fda will not find other deficiencies in our compliance with the qsr and other postmarket regulations. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in foreign countries. to be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. the european union requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the european union. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the right to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we apply for permission to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark permissions we have already obtained. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain permission to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the permissions we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the european union. 27 table of contents if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or european manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, which would result in product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated by the fda for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the fda quality system regulations, or qsr. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization, or iso, quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in europe. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we are currently in compliance with iso standards. the fda inspected our mountain view in march 2000 and our sunnyvale facilities in december 2002 and december 2006. the good manufacturing practice issues raised by the fda during the inspections either were satisfactorily resolved with the fda, or we believe can be resolved by us to the fda satisfaction, although we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. we continue to be subject to fda inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. as required, we are licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we are subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship any products. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if they do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our 28 table of contents intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be united states and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to computer-assisted surgery, remote surgery, and minimally invasive surgery. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present technology, and may cover aspects of our future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering surgical products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with several industry partners. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts or investors expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. our product typically has a lengthy sales cycle. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we 29 table of contents expect, our results of operations will suffer. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2008, the nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $353.88 and a low of $111.74. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies; and economic changes and overall market volatility; and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including intuitive surgical, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. consolidated cash flow data year ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in thousands) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 278,235 $ 205,687 $ 99,845 investing activities (304,528 ) (236,400 ) (113,353 ) financing activities 97,980 118,847 42,183 effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 111 301 207 net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 71,798 $ 88,435 $ 28,882 42 table of contents operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2008, cash flow from operations of $278.2 million exceeded our net income of $204.3 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock compensation, taxes, and depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets. these non-cash charges totaled $83.9 million. 2) we experienced rapid growth in our business with revenues increasing 46% during the year ended december 31, 2008. our net investment in working capital and other operating assets totaled $9.9 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other current liabilities. accounts receivable increased $39.7 million or 30% in 2008, reflecting increased revenue and the timing of system sales. inventory increased $31.1 million or 96% in 2008 primarily due to lower than expected system revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $24.6 million or 45% in 2008, which is primarily related to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $32.3 million or 34% in 2008, reflecting changes in the volume of our business, timing of vendor payments and increase in unrecognized tax benefits. during the year ended december 31, 2007, cash flow from operations of $205.7 million exceeded our net income of $144.5 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock compensation, taxes, and depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets. these non-cash charges totaled $59.1 million. also included in our net income is approximately $4.1 million of gain on the sale of publicly-traded equity securities which has been classified as an investing activity. 2) we experienced rapid growth in our business with revenues increasing 61% in 2007. however, our net investment in working capital and other operating assets totaled only $2.1 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, other current assets, deferred revenue and other current liabilities. accounts receivable increased $35.7 million or 38% in 2007, reflecting increased revenue and the timing of system sales. inventory increased $8.2 million or 34% in 2007 due to increased sales volume. other assets increased by $6.8 million or 99% in 2007, reflecting the timing of payments. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $17.3 million or 46% in 2007, which is primarily related to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $35.3 million or 79% in 2007, reflecting changes in the volume of our business and timing of vendor payments. during the year ended december 31, 2006, cash flow from operations of $99.8 million exceeded our net income of $72.0 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock compensation, taxes, and depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets. these non-cash charges totaled $56.0 million. 2) we experienced rapid growth in our business with revenues increasing 64% in 2006. this growth required investment in working capital, particularly accounts receivable and inventory. our net investment in working capital and other operating assets totaled $28.2 million. investing activities net cash used in investing activities during the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 consisted primarily of purchases of investments (net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments) of $198.6 million, 43 table of contents $212.4 million, and $95.3 million, respectively, and purchases of property and equipment and licensing of intellectual property of $106.0 million, $24.0 million, and $18.1 million, respectively. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and/or tax exempt municipal notes (some of which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds. as of december 31, 2008, the current yield to maturity on our investment portfolio is approximately 3%. we are not a capital-intensive business. our purchases of property and equipment in 2008, 2007, and 2006 related mainly to facilities and information technology infrastructure to support capacity expansion in our business. similarly, our investments of $43.5 million in acquired intellectual property rights are for use in the development of robotic surgical products. financing activities net cash provided by financing activities in 2008, 2007 and 2006 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock options, employee stock purchases and warrants exercises of $44.7 million, $56.0 million and $19.1 million, respectively, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $53.3 million, $62.9 million and $23.0 million, respectively. the decrease in proceeds from stock options and employee stock purchases during the year ended december 31, 2008 was primarily due to lower stock price during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. we expect to devote substantial capital resources to continue our research and development efforts, to expand our customer support and product development activities and for other general corporate activities. during 2008, despite the economic downturn, we experienced significant business expansion. we increased revenue by 46%, invested in new facilities, invested in several intellectual property rights, and increased our headcount by 37%. we generated $204.3 million of net income, which represented the major driver of the net cash provided by operating activities in 2008. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2008 (in thousands): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years operating leases $ 2,956 $ 1,298 $ 1,622 $ 36 purchase commitments and obligations 137,936 116,295 20,391 1,250 total contractual obligations $ 140,892 $ 117,593 $ 22,013 $ 1,286 operating leases: we lease office spaces in the united states, switzerland, and mexico. we also lease automobiles for certain employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. 44 table of contents other commitments. effective january 1, 2007, the company adopted the provisions of fin 48. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. see note 9 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. off-balance-sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2008, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, or gaap, which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries and government agencies, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds (some of which may have an auction reset feature). the securities, other than money market funds, and the ars for which we have accepted the right from ubs and were reclassified to trading, are classified as available for sale and consequently are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weighted-average maturity of our investments excluding auction rate securities as of december 31, 2008 was approximately one year. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $1.6 million as of december 31, 2008. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. at december 31, 2008, we held approximately $79.1 million of municipal bond investments, classified as long-term assets, with an auction reset feature ( auction rate securities ) whose underlying assets are student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. in february 2008, auctions began to fail for these securities and each auction since then has failed. consequently, the investments are not currently liquid and the company will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the investments mature, which may be over 20 years. as a result, our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. all ars are currently aaa rated, the highest rating, except for one which is a2, by a rating agency. if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. at december 31, 2008, our investment advisors provided a valuation for the ars investments utilizing a discounted cash flow approach to arrive at this valuation, which was corroborated by a separate and comparable discounted cash flow analysis we prepared. based on this level 3 valuation, we valued the ars investments at $79.1 million, which represents a decline in value of $15.6 million from par. the assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates of, based on data available as of december 31, 2008, interest rates, timing and amount of cash flows, credit and liquidity premiums, and expected holding periods of the ars. these assumptions are volatile and subject to change as the underlying sources of these assumptions and market conditions change, thereby could result in significant changes to the fair value of ars. in november 2008, we accepted an offer (the right ) from ubs ag ( ubs ), one of our investment providers, entitling us to sell at par value auction-rate securities originally purchased from ubs at anytime during a two-year period from june 30, 2010 through july 2, 2012. in accepting the right, we granted ubs the authority to sell or auction the ars at par at any time up until the expiration date of the offer and released ubs 50 table of contents from any claims relating to the marketing and sale of ars. although we expect to sell our ars under the right, if the right is not exercised before july 2, 2012 it will expire and ubs will have no further rights or obligation to buy our ars. in lieu of our acceptance of the right, ars will continue to accrue and pay interest as determined by the auction process or the terms specified in the prospectus of the ars if the auction process fails. the value of the right may largely offset the decline in fair value of the ars. ubs obligations under the right are not secured by its assets and do not require ubs to obtain any financing to support its performance obligations under the rights. ubs has disclaimed any assurance that it will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its obligations under the rights. if ubs has insufficient funding to buy back the ars and the auction process continues to fail, then we may incur further losses on the carrying value of the ars. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of sales activities outside of the united states, we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s.dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable and currency bank balances. our primary exposure is the euro. for the year ended december 31, 2008, sales denominated in foreign currencies were approximately 11% of total revenue. for the year ended december 31, 2008, our revenue would have decreased by approximately $9.8 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate used would have strengthened by 10%. in addition, we have assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies with which we have exposure at december 31, 2008 would have resulted in a $3.4 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. during the year ended december 31, 2008, we did not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our exchange rate risks. subsequent to december 31, 2008, we entered into foreign exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our risk associated with euro exposure. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, hospitals will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could materially adversely affect our company. during 2009 and 2008, the global economy experienced a severe downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, the credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. uncertainty about current global economic conditions pose a risk as customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products. during 2009, the world-wide economic recession curtailed hospital demand for capital purchases of our da vinci surgical systems. although demand for our da vinci surgical systems improved towards the end of 2009, there can be no assurance that it will continue to improve. in addition, there could be other follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays and inability of customers, including distributors, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if conditions become more severe or continue longer than we anticipate, our forecasted demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and the market price of our stock. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors products or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, 21 table of contents which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than da vinci surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. in addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. as a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and generally requires the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. our sales of da vinci surgical systems tend to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter. these factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. in addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. international sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our international activities. our business currently depends in part on our activities in europe and other foreign markets. revenue from markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 21%, 22%, and 22% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. these challenges include: failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. 22 table of contents a large portion of our international sales are denominated in united states dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in international markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily for the euro and the british pound. we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary based on our assessment of the relevant risks, opportunities and expenses. our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components and computer software, any of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems. we cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors or performance problems in the future. if we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. 23 table of contents the use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, divert management attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims. the medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause injury or death. there is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also be subject to product liability lawsuits. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. a product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. product liability claims have been made against our company in the past. a product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm our reputation or result in a decline in revenues. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. domestic institutions will typically bill the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do 24 table of contents not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors policies do not permit reimbursement for surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for reimbursement through government- sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party reimbursements may affect demand for our products for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in california, a seismically active region. a natural disaster in any of our major markets in north america or europe could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. 25 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations a number of factors may harm our future effective tax rates including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could harm net income for future periods. we may realize losses on our investments in auction rate securities or be unable to liquidate these investments at desired times and in desired amounts. at december 31, 2009, we held $81.3 million in auction rate securities (ars), whose underlying assets are student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. since the auctions for these securities have continued to fail since february 2008, these investments are not currently trading and therefore do not have a readily determinable market value. accordingly, the estimated fair value of the ars no longer approximates par value. a large portion of these ars are held by ubs ag (ubs), one of our investment providers. in november 2008, we accepted an offer (the right ) from ubs entitling us to sell at par value auction-rate securities originally purchased from ubs (approximately $69.9 million, par value) at any time during a two-year period from june 30, 2010 through july 2, 2012. if the right is not exercised before july 2, 2012, it will expire and ubs will have no further rights or obligation to buy our ars. we intend to exercise the right from ubs on june 30, 2010 and as a result have classified these ars as short-term investments as of december 31, 2009. if ubs has insufficient funding to buy back the ars and the auction process continues to fail, then we may incur further losses on the carrying value of the ars. the remaining ars (approximately $23.5 million, par value) are held by another investment advisor, who has not made an offer similar to ubs and we have continued to classify them as available-for-sale securities. accordingly, changes in associated market value during the year ended december 31, 2009 have been recorded through other comprehensive income. if the market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income or impairment charges. we may not be able to liquidate these investments unless the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. disruption of critical information systems could harm our business and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our 26 table of contents business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. risks relating to our regulatory environment healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party reimbursements may affect demand for our products. the u. s. government has in the past considered, is currently considering and may in the future, consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. state and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted similar types of policies. while we believe that minimally invasive surgery using da vinci surgical systems reduces healthcare costs, future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the united states or elsewhere, and current uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products and services and our business. these include changes that may reduce reimbursement rates for procedures using our products and/or potential fees assessed on revenues generated by medical device companies that may be proposed or implemented by the current u.s. presidential administration or congress. it is unclear which, if any, of the various u.s. healthcare reforms currently being discussed and/or proposed might be enacted by the u.s. congress and signed into law by the president. we are unable to predict what healthcare reform legislation or regulations, if any, will be enacted in the united states or elsewhere; whether other healthcare legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect any legislation or regulation would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial and include potential exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. additionally, several bills have been passed or are pending, at both the state and federal levels that expand anti-kickback laws, to require, among other things, extensive tracking and maintenance of databases regarding relationships and payments to physicians and healthcare providers. the implementation of the infrastructure to comply with these bills could be quite costly. 27 table of contents our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda. the fda regulates the research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, distribution and production of medical devices in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, or ffdca. clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application, or pma, for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the united states. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the united states. furthermore, the fda may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. the fda may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a pma, which is typically a much more complex and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, or the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board, or irb, approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption, or ide, application. most of our products to date have been considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the united states for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of contents complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: quality system regulation, or qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; the reports of corrections and removals regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health; and the medical device reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a regulatory letter to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have modified the labeling, advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to highlight specific procedures that we believe are within the scope of our existing 510(k) clearances. we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. we also have modified the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system since clearance in ways that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. computer motion, which we acquired in 2003, also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or computer motion products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. our last inspection occurred in april 2008 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing deficiencies under the qsr relating to complaint handling and supplier management. we later responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure that the fda will not find other deficiencies in our compliance with the qsr and other postmarket regulations. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in foreign countries. to be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. 29 table of contents the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the right to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we apply for permission to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark permissions we have already obtained. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain permission to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the permissions we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in november 2009, we received shonin approval from the japanese mhlw for our da vinci system and certain of our instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci surgical procedures. we may seek additional approvals for other products and/or procedures, however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, given that only a subset of our instruments have been approved it is possible, depending on surgeon preference, that approved procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. we are currently focusing efforts on meeting various trade and importation requirements necessary for commercialization and determining the appropriate reimbursement strategy for da vinci procedures in japan. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or european manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, which would result in product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated by the fda for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization, or iso, quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in europe. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. we are currently in compliance with iso standards. our last inspection occurred in april 2008 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing deficiencies under the qsr relating to complaint handling and supplier management. we later responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we continue to be subject to fda inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. as required, we are licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we are subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship any products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 30 table of contents risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to replace our expiring patents, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. some of our patents will begin to expire in 2012. while we will continue to work to add to our patent portfolio to protect the intellectual property contained in our products, we believe new competitors will emerge in medical robotics. we do not know whether we will have the patent protection we need, or whether the protection we do have will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be united states and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to computer-assisted surgery, remote surgery, and minimally invasive surgery. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover 31 table of contents one or more aspects of our present technology, and may cover aspects of our future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering surgical products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with several industry partners. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts or investors expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. our products typically have a lengthy sales cycle. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; 32 table of contents product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2009, the nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $306.58 and a low of $85.33. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past, especially recently. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including intuitive surgical, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. 45 table of contents consolidated cash flow data year ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 385,055 $ 278,235 $ 205,687 investing activities (292,377 ) (304,528 ) (236,400 ) financing activities (66,169 ) 97,980 118,847 effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 305 111 301 net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 26,814 $ 71,798 $ 88,435 operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2009, cash flow from operations of $385.1 million exceeded our net income of $232.6 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock compensation, deferred taxes, and depreciation of long-lived assets and amortization of purchased intellectual property. these non-cash charges totaled $114.4 million. 2) cash provided by working capital and other assets during the year ended december 31, 2009 was approximately $38.0 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, deferred revenue and other liabilities. accounts receivable increased $35.3 million or 21% in 2009, primarily reflecting increased revenue. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $21.3 million or 27% in 2009, which is primarily related to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $52.5 million or 41% in 2009, reflecting changes in the volume of our business and timing of vendor payments and increase in unrecognized tax benefits. during the year ended december 31, 2008, cash flow from operations of $278.2 million exceeded our net income of $204.3 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock compensation, taxes, and depreciation of long-lived assets and amortization of purchased intellectual property. these non-cash charges totaled $83.9 million. 2) we experienced rapid growth in our business with revenues increasing 46% during the year ended december 31, 2008. our net investment in working capital and other operating assets totaled $9.9 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other current liabilities. accounts receivable increased $39.7 million or 30% in 2008, primarily reflecting increased revenue. inventory increased $31.1 million or 96% in 2008 primarily due to lower than expected system revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $24.6 million or 45% in 2008, which is primarily related to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $32.3 million or 34% in 2008, reflecting changes in the volume of our business, timing of vendor payments and increase in unrecognized tax benefits. 46 table of contents during the year ended december 31, 2007, cash flow from operations of $205.7 million exceeded our net income of $144.5 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock compensation, taxes, and depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets. these non-cash charges totaled $59.1 million. also included in our net income is approximately $4.1 million of gain on the sale of publicly-traded equity securities which has been classified as an investing activity. 2) we experienced rapid growth in our business with revenues increasing 61% in 2007. however, our net investment in working capital and other operating assets totaled only $2.1 million. investing activities net cash used in investing activities during the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 consisted primarily of purchases of investments (net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments) of $239.0 million, $198.6 million and $212.4 million, respectively, and purchases of property and equipment and licensing of intellectual property of $53.4 millions, $106.0 million and $24.0 million, respectively. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and/or tax exempt municipal notes (some of which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, cash deposits and money market funds. we are not a capital-intensive business. our purchases of property and equipment in 2009, 2008, and 2007 related mainly to facilities and information technology infrastructure to support capacity expansion in our business. financing activities net cash used in financing activities in 2009 consisted primarily of $150.0 million used for the repurchase of 1.4 million shares of our common stock through our accelerated repurchase program, offset by proceeds from stock options and employee stock purchases of $58.7 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $25.1 million. net cash provided by financing activities in 2008 and 2007 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock options, employee stock purchases and warrants exercises of $44.7 million and $56.0 million, respectively, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $53.3 million and $62.9 million, respectively. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. we expect to devote substantial capital resources to continue our research and development efforts, to expand our customer support and product development activities and for other general corporate activities. during 2009, despite the economic downturn, we experienced significant business expansion. we increased revenue by 20%, invested in new facilities, invested in several intellectual property rights, and increased our headcount by 20%. we generated $232.6 million of net income, which represented the major driver of the net cash provided by operating activities in 2009. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. 47 table of contents contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2009 (in thousands): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years operating leases $ 3,363 $ 1,759 $ 1,591 $ 13 purchase commitments and obligations 145,097 142,714 1,967 416 total contractual obligations $ 148,460 $ 144,473 $ 3,558 $ 429 operating leases. we lease office spaces in the united states, switzerland, mexico and china. we also lease automobiles for certain sales employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. other commitments. effective january 1, 2007, the company adopted the new accounting guidance for unrecognized tax benefits. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. see note 10 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. off-balance-sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2009, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, or u.s. gaap, which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries and government agencies, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds (some of which may have an auction reset feature). the securities, other than money market funds and the ars, are classified as available for sale and consequently are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weighted-average maturity of our investments excluding auction rate securities as of december 31, 2009 was approximately 1.2 years. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $2.7 million as of december 31, 2009. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. the recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. at december 31, 2009, we held approximately $81.3 million of municipal bonds with an auction reset feature ( auction rate securities or ars ) whose underlying assets are student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. these ars securities represent less than 10% of our total investment portfolio. since february 2008, these auctions have failed and therefore continue to be illiquid and we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. as a result, our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. a large portion of the ars are held by ubs. in november 2008, we accepted an offer (the right ) from ubs, entitling us to sell at par value auction-rate securities originally purchased from ubs at anytime during a two-year period from june 30, 2010 through july 2, 2012. if ubs has insufficient funding to buy back the ars and the auction process continues to fail, then we may incur further losses on the carrying value of the ars. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of sales activities outside of the united states, we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s.dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable and currency bank balances. our primary exposure is with the euro. for the year ended december 31, 2009, sales denominated in foreign currencies were approximately 12% of total revenue. in january 2009, we began a hedging program to address the risk associated with non-functional currency financial statement exposures primarily to partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. for the year ended december 31, 2009, our revenue would have decreased by approximately $5.0 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate would have strengthened by 10%. in addition, we have assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies with which we 53 table of contents have exposure, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions at december 31, 2009 would have resulted in a $0.5 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. the bank counterparties to the foreign exchange forward contracts expose the company to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. however, to mitigate that risk, the company only contracts with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under its counterparty risk assessment process. the company monitors ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on its on-going assessment of counterparty risk, the company will adjust its exposure to various counterparties. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, hospitals will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could materially adversely affect our company. during 2009 and 2008, the global economy experienced a severe downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, the credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. uncertainty about current global economic conditions continue to pose a risk as customers may postpone spending in response to restraints on credit. there could be additional effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays, and the inability of our customers and distributors, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if conditions worsen or if the improved economic conditions are slower than anticipated, our forecasted demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and the market price of our stock. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors products or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches, or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than da vinci surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. 21 table of contents in addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. as a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we experience long and variable capital sales cycles and seasonality in our business, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals , their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable. this approval process can be lengthy. in addition, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines. as a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, and lighter in the third and first fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. recently, we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpoplexies, myomectomies, and certain other surgeries. surgeries for benign conditions represented more than 40% of our total procedures in 2010. many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. historically, we have experienced lower procedure counts in the third fiscal quarter, higher procedure counts in the fourth fiscal quarter and lower procedure counts in the first fiscal quarter. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases. the above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. in addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. international sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our international activities. our business currently depends in part on our activities in europe and other foreign markets. revenue from markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 20%, 21%, and 22% of our revenue for the 22 table of contents years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. these challenges include: failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. a large portion of our international sales are denominated in united states dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in international markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily for the euro and the british pound. we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary based on our assessment of the relevant risks, opportunities and expenses. our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components and computer software, any of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems. we cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors or performance problems in the future. if we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; 23 table of contents delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. the use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, divert management attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims. the medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause injury or death. there is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also be subject to product liability lawsuits. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. a product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. product liability claims have been made against our company in the past. a product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm our reputation or result in a decline in revenues. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to 24 table of contents meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. in the united states, hospitals generally bill the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the u.s. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party reimbursements may affect demand for our products for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in california, a seismically active region. a natural disaster in any of our major markets in north america or europe could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. 25 table of contents changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. on august 6, 2010, a purported class action lawsuit was filed against us and several of our officers and directors in the united states district court for the northern district of california seeking unspecified damages on behalf of a putative class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock between february 1, 2008 and january 7, 2009. the complaint alleges that we violated federal securities laws by making allegedly false and misleading statements and omitting certain material facts in our filings with the securities and exchange commission. two purported derivative actions making substantially similar allegations were filed in the superior court of california for the county of santa clara shortly thereafter. those actions are described more fully under part i, item 3, legal proceedings. the results of these lawsuits and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. accordingly, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses, if any. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. if we do not prevail in the purported class action lawsuit or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, possibly materially. we are subject to significant, uninsured liabilities. for certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. for example, we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not insure for the underlying losses, and we do not carry earthquake insurance, among others. in addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly over the years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors and officers insurance or products liability insurance may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases self-insure completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we use estimates, make judgments and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business. in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. as these estimates, judgments, and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. 26 table of contents in addition, we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes and da vinci procedures completed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. our estimates of surgical market sizes or da vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations but are used to estimate the progress of our business. estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and da vinci procedures may vary over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee and other factors. in addition, over time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and da vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations a number of factors may harm our future effective tax rates including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could harm net income for future periods. we may realize losses on our investments in auction rate securities or be unable to liquidate these investments at desired times and in desired amounts. at december 31, 2010, we held $18.6 million in auction rate securities (ars), whose underlying assets are student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. since the auctions for these securities have continued to fail since february 2008, these investments are not currently trading and therefore do not have a readily determinable market value. accordingly, the estimated fair value of the ars no longer approximates par value. accordingly, changes in associated market value during the year ended december 31, 2010 have been recorded through other comprehensive income. if the market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income or impairment charges. we may not be able to liquidate these investments unless the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. disruption of critical information systems could harm our business and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our 27 table of contents business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. risks relating to our regulatory environment healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the u.s. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in march 2010, the president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. one of the principal aims of the ppaca as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million americans who are currently uninsured. the consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are unknown and speculative at this point. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions among other things. this includes new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturer will have to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3 percent of certain u.s. medical device revenues. though there are some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax does applies to all of our products and product candidates sold within the u.s.. the ppaca provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research extend the initiatives of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, also known as the stimulus package, which included $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. this stimulus funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or synthesizing research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products. the ppaca appropriates additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research. although congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it remains unclear how the research will impact current medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies. we expect that the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on certain development projects. the taxes imposed by the new federal legislation and the expansion in the government role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party coverage and reimbursements may affect demand for our products. the u. s. government has in the past considered, is currently considering and may in the future, consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. state and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted similar types of policies. while we believe that minimally invasive surgery using da vinci surgical systems reduces healthcare costs, future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the united states or elsewhere, and current uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. we are unable to predict whether other healthcare legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect any legislation or regulation would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. 28 table of contents we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. . further, the recently enacted ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the ppaca provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. moreover, some states, such as california, massachusetts and vermont, mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial and include potential exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. the ppaca also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013. such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning september 30, 2013. in addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements. compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the u.s. and/or abroad. these numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include us laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. 29 table of contents our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda. the fda regulates the research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, distribution and production of medical devices in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, or ffdca. clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application, or pma, for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the united states. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the united states. furthermore, the fda may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. regulatory policy affecting our products can change at any time. the changes and their impact on our business cannot be accurately predicted. changes in the fda 510(k) process could make approval more difficult to obtain, increase delay, add uncertainty and have other significant adverse effects on our ability to obtain and maintain approval for our products. the fda may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a pma, which is typically a much more complex and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, or the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board, or irb, approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption, or ide, application. most of our products to date have been considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the united states for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 table of contents complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: quality system regulation, or qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; the reports of corrections and removals regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health; and the medical device reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a regulatory letter to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have modified the labeling, advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to highlight specific procedures that we believe are within the scope of our existing 510(k) clearances. we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. we also have modified the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system since clearance in ways that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. computer motion, which we acquired in 2003, also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or computer motion products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. our last inspection occurred in july 2010 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing deficiencies under the qsr relating to complaint handling and manufacturing/inspection handling. we later responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure that the fda will not find other deficiencies in our compliance with the qsr and other postmarket regulations. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in foreign countries. to be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any 31 table of contents foreign country in which we plan to market our products. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the right to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for permission to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark permissions we have already obtained. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain permission to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the permissions we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in november 2009, we received shonin approval from the japanese mhlw for our da vinci system and certain of our instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci surgical procedures. we may seek additional approvals for other products and/or procedures, however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, given that only a subset of our instruments have been approved it is possible, depending on surgeon preference, that approved procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. we are currently focusing efforts on obtaining the appropriate reimbursement approvals for da vinci procedures in japan. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or european manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, which would result in product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated by the fda for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization, or iso, quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in europe. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. our last inspection occurred in july 2010 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing deficiencies under the qsr relating to complaint handling and manufacturing/inspection handling. we later responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we continue to be subject to fda inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. as required, we are licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we are subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship any products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 32 table of contents risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to replace our expiring patents, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. some of our patents will begin to expire in 2012. while we will continue to work to add to our patent portfolio to protect the intellectual property contained in our products, we believe new competitors will emerge in medical robotics. we do not know whether we will have the patent protection we need, or whether the protection we do have will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be united states and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to computer-assisted surgery, remote surgery, and minimally invasive surgery. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover 33 table of contents one or more aspects of our present technology, and may cover aspects of our future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering surgical products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with several industry partners. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts or investors expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. our products typically have a lengthy sales cycle. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; 34 table of contents the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2009, the nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $306.58 and a low of $85.33 and during fiscal 2010, it reached a high of $388.01 and a low of $247.50. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past, especially recently. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including intuitive surgical, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. consolidated cash flow data year ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 528.0 $ 385.1 $ 278.2 investing activities (476.5 ) (292.4 ) (304.5 ) financing activities 7.7 (66.2 ) 98.0 effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (0.8 ) 0.3 0.1 net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 58.4 $ 26.8 $ 71.8 operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2010, cash flow from operations of $528.0 million exceeded our net income of $381.8 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $129.2 million during the year ended december 31, 2010. 2) cash provided by working capital during the year ended december 31, 2010 was approximately $17.0 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other liabilities. inventory increased by $29.2 million or 51% in 2010. the growth in inventory reflects increased revenue, increases to ensure adequate supply of key components as december 31 st quantities were below optimal levels and inventory associated with new product introductions. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $26.5 million or 26% in 2010 related to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $60.1 million or 35% in 2010, primarily due to timing of vendor and tax payments and employee compensation during 2010. during the year ended december 31, 2009, cash flow from operations of $385.1 million exceeded our net income of $232.6 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $114.5 million during the year ended december 31, 2009. 2) cash provided by working capital and other assets during the year ended december 31, 2009 was approximately $38.0 million. 50 table of contents working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, deferred revenue and other liabilities. accounts receivable increased $35.3 million or 21% in 2009, primarily reflecting increased revenue. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $21.3 million or 27% in 2009, which is primarily related to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $52.4 million or 41% in 2009, reflecting changes in the volume of our business and timing of vendor payments and increase in unrecognized tax benefits. during the year ended december 31, 2008, cash flow from operations of $278.2 million exceeded our net income of $204.3 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $83.9 million during the year ended december 31, 2008. 2) we experienced rapid growth in our business with revenues increasing 46% during the year ended december 31, 2008. our net investment in working capital and other operating assets totaled $9.9 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other current liabilities. accounts receivable increased $39.7 million or 30% in 2008, primarily reflecting increased revenue. inventory increased $31.1 million or 96% in 2008 primarily due to lower than expected system revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $24.6 million or 45% in 2008, which is primarily related to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $32.4 million or 34% in 2008, reflecting changes in the volume of our business, timing of vendor payments and increase in unrecognized tax benefits. investing activities net cash used in investing activities during the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 consisted primarily of purchases of investments (net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments) of $380.5 million, $239.0 million and $198.5 million, respectively, and purchases of property and equipment and licensing of intellectual property of $96.0 million, $53.4 million and $106.0 million, respectively. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and/or tax exempt municipal notes (some of which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, cash deposits and money market funds. we are not a capital-intensive business. financing activities net cash provided by financing activities in 2010 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $141.1 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $65.2 million, offset by $198.6 million for the repurchase of approximately 0.7 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions. net cash used in financing activities in 2009 consisted primarily of $150.0 million used for the repurchase of 1.4 million shares of our common stock through an accelerated repurchase program, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $58.7 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $25.1 million. net cash provided by financing activities in 2008 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $44.7 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $53.3 million. our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. we expect to continue to 51 table of contents devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products investments. in 2010, we made substantial investments in our sales force, product development activities, facilities and intellectual property. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2010 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years operating leases $ 4.8 $ 2.1 $ 1.9 $ 0.5 $ 0.3 purchase commitments and obligations 212.2 210.8 1.4 total contractual obligations $ 217.0 $ 212.9 $ 3.3 $ 0.5 $ 0.3 operating leases. we lease office spaces in the united states, switzerland, mexico, japan and china. we also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services, acquisition and licensing of intellectual property and commitment to purchase land and buildings in sunnyvale, california. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and development arrangements. payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and have not been included in the table above. other commitments. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. off-balance-sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2010, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, or u.s. gaap, which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries and government agencies, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds (some of which may have an auction reset feature). the securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weighted-average maturity of our investments excluding auction rate securities as of december 31, 2010 was approximately 1.1 years. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $3.8 million as of december 31, 2010. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. the recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. at december 31, 2010, we held approximately $18.6 million of municipal bonds with an auction reset feature ( auction rate securities or ars ) whose underlying assets are student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. these ars securities represent approximately 1% of our total investment portfolio. since february 2008, these auctions have failed and therefore continue to be illiquid and we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. as a result, our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of sales activities outside of the united states, we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s.dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable and currency bank balances. our primary exposure is with the euro. 57 table of contents for the year ended december 31, 2010, sales denominated in foreign currencies were approximately 11% of total revenue. the objective of our hedging program to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. for the year ended december 31, 2010, our revenue would have decreased by approximately $2.5 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate would have strengthened by 10%. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies with which we have exposure, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions at december 31, 2010 would have resulted in a $0.6 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. to mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. we monitor ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on our on-going assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust its exposure to various counterparties. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 58 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors. our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. part i item 1. business in this report, intuitive surgical, intuitive, the company, we, us, and our refer to intuitive surgical, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. intuitive &reg; , intuitive surgical &reg; , da vinci &reg; , da vinci &reg; , da vinci &reg; si hd surgical system , da vinci hd surgical system &reg; , da vinci &reg; si , da vinci &reg; si-e , endowrist &reg; , endowrist &reg; one , single-site , dvstat &reg; , firefly and insite &reg; are trademarks of intuitive surgical, inc. company background intuitive designs, manufactures and markets da vinci surgical systems and related instruments and accessories, which taken together, are advanced surgical systems that we believe represent a new generation of surgery. we believe that this new generation of surgery, which we call da vinci surgery, combines the benefits of minimally invasive surgery (mis) for patients with the ease of use, precision and dexterity of open surgery. a da vinci surgical system consists of a surgeon console, a patient-side cart and a high performance vision system. the da vinci surgical system translates a surgeon natural hand movements, which are performed on instrument controls at a console, into corresponding micro-movements of instruments positioned inside the patient through small incisions, or ports. the da vinci surgical system is designed to provide its operating surgeon with intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability and 3-d, high-definition (hd) vision while simultaneously allowing them to work through the small ports of mis. 3 table of contents da vinci surgery open surgery remains the predominant form of surgery and is used in almost every area of the body. however, the large incisions required for open surgery create trauma to the patient, resulting in longer hospitalization and recovery times, increased hospitalization costs and additional pain and suffering relative to minimally invasive surgery (mis) where mis is available. over the past two decades, mis has reduced trauma to the patient by allowing selected surgeries to be performed through small ports rather than large incisions, often resulting in shorter recovery times, fewer complications and reduced hospitalization costs. mis has been widely adopted for certain surgical procedures, but it has not been widely adopted for complex reconstructive surgeries. the da vinci surgical system enables surgeons to extend the benefits of mis to many patients typically receiving open surgery by using computational, robotic and imaging technologies to overcome many of the limitations of conventional minimally invasive surgery. surgeons operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a high resolution, 3-d, hd image of the surgical field. this immersive visualization connects the surgeon to the surgical field and their instruments. while seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the way he or she has been trained to do in open surgery. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon hand. in designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy to use. our systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons: immersive 3-d visualization. our vision system includes a 3-d endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. the da vinci surgical system provides visualization of target anatomy with natural depth-of-field, enhanced contrast and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. with our new firefly fluorescence imaging upgrade, surgeons can use specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature beneath tissue surfaces in real-time. precise and tremor-free endoscope control. our imaging system also incorporates our proprietary navigator camera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left and right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image. intuitive instrument movements. our technology is designed to transform the surgeon natural hand movements outside the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient body. for example, with the da vinci surgical system, a hand movement to the right outside the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. in contrast, conventional mis instruments are long rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. in conventional mis, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon hand and surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to translate their hand movements in this backward environment. endowrist instruments. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human hand and wrist. most of our proprietary instruments, which we call endowrist instruments, incorporate wrist joints that enable surgeons to reach behind tissues and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery. scaled, tremor filtered instrument movement. with our technology, the surgeon can also use motion scaling, a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient body. motion scaling is designed to allow precision and control for delicate tasks. in addition, our technology provides the filtering of tremor inherent in a surgeon hands. improved surgeon ergonomics. the da vinci surgical system is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. the da vinci surgical system design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon console. since the da vinci surgical system robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue. 4 table of contents multi-specialty surgical platform. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures. to date, we believe surgeons have used the da vinci surgical system to perform nearly 100 different types of surgical procedures. we do not expect all of these different types of procedures to become widely adopted however, they demonstrate the flexibility of the da vinci surgical system in approaching anatomy. products: da vinci surgical system we have commercialized three generations of da vinci surgical system the da vinci si surgical system, the da vinci surgical system and the standard da vinci surgical system. da vinci surgical systems are comprised of the following components: surgeon console . the da vinci surgical system allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic console viewing a 3-d image of the surgical field. the surgeon fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with their hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. using electronic hardware, software, algorithms and mechanics our technology translates the surgeon hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of the endowrist instruments positioned inside the patient. on our most current system, da vinci si , a second surgeon console, may be used in two possible ways: to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. with the da vinci si , a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of the da vinci instruments during a case. in addition, surgeons can control 3-d virtual pointers to augment the dual surgeon experience. patient-side cart . the patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the patient. up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned as appropriate, and then locked into place. at least two arms hold our endowrist instruments, one representing the surgeon left hand and one representing their right hand. a third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. an optional fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a third endowrist instrument to perform additional tasks. the fourth instrument arm is a standard integrated feature on the da vinci si and da vinci surgical systems and is available as a field upgrade on three-arm standard da vinci and three-arm da vinci surgical systems and da vinci si-e surgical systems. 3-d vision system. our vision system includes our insite 3-d endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. the resulting 3-d image has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker and low cross fading. a digital zoom feature in the 3-d, hd vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and thereby reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. the 3-d, hd vision is a standard integrated feature on da vinci and da vinci si surgical systems sold today and as an upgrade option to our existing customers who own a da vinci surgical system without hd vision. firefly fluorescence imaging . in the first quarter of 2011, we launched our firefly fluorescence imaging product for use with the da vinci si surgical system in the united states and europe. this new imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da vinci camera head, endoscope and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy. our phased roll-out of the firefly fluorescence imaging product is progressing, with its initial use targeted in partial nephrectomy procedures. general surgeons are beginning to evaluate the value of fluorescence imaging in colorectal surgery to assess tissue perfusion. da vinci skills simulator . the simulator is a practice tool which began shipping in early 2011 for the da vinci si surgical system that gives a user the opportunity to practice his or her facility with the surgeon console controls. the simulator incorporates three-dimensional, physics-based computer simulation 5 table of contents technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment. the user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. upon completion of a skills exercise, the simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. the skills simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for the da vinci si surgical system. instruments and accessories endowrist instruments . we manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate wrist joints for natural dexterity, with tips customized for various surgical procedures. endowrist instruments are offered in a variety of sizes, primarily 5mm and 8mm diameter sizes. at their tips, the various endowrist instruments include forceps, scissors, electrocautery, scalpels and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon from open surgery and conventional mis. a variety of endowrist instruments are selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. our endowrist instruments are sterilizable and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. a programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the system and instruments work together. in addition, the chip will not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed number of procedures so that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. we typically develop new types of endowrist instruments to support additional types of surgical procedures. da vinci single-site. single-site is a set of instruments and accessories that allow da vinci si surgical systems to work through a single incision rather than multiple incisions. single incision surgery is intended to minimize trauma to patients by reducing the number of ports required to enter the body. non-robotic single incision surgery today is typically performed with modified laparoscopic instruments. however, physicians have reported that manual single incision surgery is technically and ergonomically challenging. our da vinci single-site instruments and accessories were designed to address these issues. in february 2011, we received the ce mark for our da vinci single-site instrument kit and began selling these new products in europe. in december 2011 we received fda regulatory clearance to market our da vinci single-site instrumentation in the united states for laparoscopic cholecystectomy procedures. endowrist one vessel sealer . the endowrist one vessel sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7 mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. this enables da vinci si surgeons to control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of da vinci surgery. this instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery procedures including colorectal surgical procedures, as well as a variety of gynecologic procedures including hysterectomies for benign or cancerous indications. in december 2011, we received fda clearance for our endowrist one vessel sealer. accessory products . we sell various accessory products which are used in conjunction with the da vinci surgical system as surgical procedures are performed. accessory products include sterile drapes used to ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products such as replacement 3-d stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other items that facilitate use of the system. business strategy our objective is to bring the benefits of minimally invasive surgery to as many patients as possible through the use of computer aided technologies. our priorities to accomplish this are as follows: 1. patient value. we believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as: patient value = efficacy/invasiveness . most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. our goal is to provide products to surgeons who in turn provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options. 6 table of contents 2. surgeon value. we train and assist surgeons in building their practices by their delivery of superior patient value through improved surgical efficacy and reduced surgical trauma. we seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy to use products. 3. hospital value. we assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value using da vinci thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced length of patient stay. we expect these benefits to increase demand for our products among hospitals, surgeons and referring physicians. given the priorities above, our strategy is to improve our candidate surgical procedures in two basic ways: 1. convert candidate open procedures to da vinci urgery. we believe that our technology has the potential to convert a significant percentage our targeted open procedures to da vinci surgery. 2. facilitate difficult mis operations. we believe that several surgical procedures that are performed only rarely today using conventional mis techniques can be performed more routinely using da vinci surgery. some procedures have been adapted for mis techniques but are extremely difficult and are currently performed by a limited number of highly skilled surgeons. we believe our da vinci surgical system will enable more surgeons at more institutions to perform these procedures. clinical applications we are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and applications for da vinci surgery an important part of our creative process. we primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value. we currently focus on five surgical specialties: urologic surgery, gynecologic surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, general surgery and head and neck surgery. key procedures which we are focused on include da vinci prostatectomy, da vinci partial nephrectomy, da vinci hysterectomy, da vinci myomectomy, da vinci sacral colpopexy, da vinci mitral valve repair, da vinci lobectomy, da vinci low anterior colon resections, and da vinci transoral robotic surgery for cancers of the throat. in 2011, we estimate that over 90% of the procedures performed were in the urologic and gynecologic specialties. representative surgical applications are described below. urologic surgery prostatectomy. radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. the standard approach to removal of the prostate has been via an open surgical procedure. the conventional laparoscopic approach is an option, but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. the da vinci surgical system has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique. partial nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor.) partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. excluding da vinci surgery, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy, and hand assisted laparoscopy, which is a hybrid of open and laparoscopic technique. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients. pyeloplasty. pyeloplasty is the surgical reconstruction or revision of the renal pelvis to drain and decompress the kidney. in nearly all cases, the goal of pyeloplasty surgery is to relieve a uretero-pelvic junction (upj) obstruction. excluding da vinci surgery, there are two common surgical approaches to performing pyeloplasty: open surgical technique and laparoscopy. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of pyeloplasty patients. 7 table of contents gynecologic surgery hysterectomy. removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and is performed for a variety of underlying benign and malignant conditions. hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy), a vaginal approach, or mis techniques, which include both laparoscopic and robotic approaches. despite the availability of non-robotic mis approaches to hysterectomy, most hysterectomies performed prior to da vinci surgery were open surgeries. da vinci has enabled a large number of women to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an alternative to an open hysterectomy. myomectomy. myomectomy, or removal of a myoma/fibroid, is a surgical procedure performed when uterine preservation is sought, typically to preserve fertility. due to the substantial suturing required for this procedure, the standard surgical approach remains an open incision. there are some highly skilled gynecological laparoscopists who perform laparoscopic myomectomies, but laparoscopic myomectomy has remained a minority of myomectomies performed. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of myomectomy patients. sacral colpopexy. the abdominal (open) sacral colpopexy is one of the most successful operations for vaginal vault prolapse. sacral colpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). a sacral colpopexy can be performed using conventional laparoscopic technique, however it is generally described as difficult and cumbersome to perform. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of sacral colpopexy patients. endometriosis resection . endometriosis is a gynecological medical condition in which cells from the lining of the uterus (endometrium) migrate outside the uterus. endometriosis can range from mild to severe, and in the worst cases, can infiltrate bowel, ureters, ovaries and other organs in the female pelvis. because of the diffuse and extensive nature of severe endometriosis, it can be difficult to treat either pharmaceutically or surgically. a successful resection of endometriosis involves both seeing lesions and their careful resection. surgeons have reported that da vinci surgery may enable a larger number of women with endometriosis to receive an effective mis approach to their endometriosis resection. cardiothoracic surgery mitral valve repair. when patients are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen. since mitral valve repairs are considered to be more technically challenging than mitral valve replacements, they are only performed approximately 50% of the time. several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when using da vinci . thoracic surgery. conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and video-assisted thoracoscopic (vats) approaches. procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision and esophagectomy. many thoracic procedures remain open procedures. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients. general surgery colorectal surgery. these procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular the rectum or colon. common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, 8 table of contents sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection (lar) and abdominoperineal resection (apr). conventional laparoscopy is not widely employed to treat these types of diseases, due to their high degree of difficulty. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in colorectal surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients. gastric bypass. a growing body of literature is pointing to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its secondary effects, such as diabetes. laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass (lrygb) is the most commonly performed surgical procedure for morbid obesity in the united states. the lrygb can be a technically challenging procedure because of the suturing, stapling and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. surgeons using the da vinci surgical system have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to lrygb. head and neck surgery transoral surgery. head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation or a combination of both. surgical resection performed by an open approach may require a jaw-splitting mandibulotomy. this procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. minimally invasive approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated by conventional endoscopic tools. chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions however literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients ability to speak and swallow normally. surgeons have reported that da vinci transoral surgery allows them to treat cancers occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line of sight limitations of conventional trans-oral surgery. thyroidectomy. thyroid cancer is most commonly treated by thyroidectomy, the removal of all or part of the thyroid gland. complete resection of the cancer and surrounding gland is required for proper oncologic outcomes. open surgery is an effective surgery in terms of oncologic control and has low complication rates. however, it leaves a prominent neck scar. surgeons, predominantly in asia, are now using the da vinci surgical system to perform thyroidectomies entering the body from the axilla (armpit) in order to avoid the visible scar on the neck. at this time, the procedure is not within the indications for use for the da vinci system in the united states. clinical summary we believe there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the da vinci surgical system and we work closely with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in which da vinci may bring value. as of december 31, 2011, we had an installed base of 2,132 da vinci surgical systems. during the year ended december 31, 2011, we estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 360,000 surgical procedures of various types in major hospitals throughout the world. of those da vinci procedures performed in 2011, we estimate that approximately 146,000 were da vinci hysterectomy (dvh) procedures and approximately 113,000 were da vinci prostatectomy (dvp) procedures. sales and customer support we market our products through a direct sales force in the united states, most of western europe excluding spain, portugal, italy and greece and, beginning with our acquisition of our korean distributor on january 11, 2012, korea. in the remainder of our world markets, we market our products through distributors. our direct sales force is comprised of sales management, clinical sales representatives, training specialists and technical service representatives. sales activities include educating surgeons and hospital staff across multiple surgical specialties on the advantages of da vinci surgery and the clinical applications that our technology enables. we also train our sales force to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including clinical benefits of da vinci surgery, reductions in complications and length of stay and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction and volume. once a hospital has installed a da vinci surgical system, 9 table of contents our clinical sales representatives help support the utilization of the system, and our technical service representatives provide service and maintenance for the system. no one customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately 790 employees in our field sales and service organizations, an increase of approximately 90 employees compared with december 31, 2010, primarily reflecting growth in our clinical sales force supporting procedures performed at customer sites. we expect to continue growing these organizations as we expand our business. our da vinci surgical system typically has a lengthy sales cycle. it is viewed as a major capital equipment purchase by our customers and sales are often affected by the timing of their budgeting cycles. a portion of our customers acquire da vinci surgical systems through a capital lease or operating lease with third-party leasing companies. in these instances, we typically sell the da vinci surgical system to the hospital or leasing company, and the hospital enters into an independent arrangement with the leasing company. therefore we treat these leasing transactions the same as sales transactions for purposes of recognizing revenue for the sale. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2011, approximately 19% of the da vinci surgical systems purchased were leased through third-party leasing companies at the time of purchase. our sales of instruments and accessories are in support of surgical procedures performed on installed systems. our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. orders received are typically shipped within one business day. direct customers who purchase a new da vinci surgical system typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories within one month of receiving their system. our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first and third fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. in addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the fourth fiscal quarter. procedures treating benign conditions are typically higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter. benign procedures represented a higher percentage of our total procedures in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth impact the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases. customer support and training programs our goal is to provide exceptional value to our customers: patients, surgeons and hospitals. we have a network of field service engineers across the united states, europe and asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. this infrastructure of service and support specialists offer a full complement of services, including 24/7 support, installation, repair and maintenance for our customers. we generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs. we provide basic system training that teaches the fundamental operating principles of the da vinci surgical system to surgeons, surgical assistants and operating room nurses. we have established training centers where initial system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. in addition, we help facilitate the proctoring of surgeons who are new to da vinci surgery by experienced da vinci surgical system users. proctors provide training to other surgeons on how to perform certain surgical procedures with the da vinci surgical system. research and development we focus our research and development efforts on providing our customers with new products and product improvements that enable them to perform improved and innovative surgical procedures with less difficulty. we 10 table of contents employ research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. we invested $140.2 million, $116.0 million and $95.1 million of research and development expenses for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. this investment is applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. we establish strategic alliances with other medical device companies to complement our research and development effort. to date, these alliances have taken several forms, including cooperation in the areas of product development, training, procedure development and marketing activities. we have formed alliances with several companies, including, but not limited to, covidien ltd., johnson &amp; johnson, olympus/gyrus, novadaq technologies, inc. and mimic technologies, inc. manufacturing we manufacture our da vinci surgical systems at our facility in sunnyvale, california. we manufacture our endowrist instruments at our sunnyvale facility and at our mexicali, mexico facility. we began production in mexicali in july 2008. we purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). we purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods. competition we consider our primary competition to be existing open surgery, conventional mis in complex cases, drug therapies, radiation treatment and emerging interventional surgical approaches. our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability as well as educating hospitals, surgeons and patients on the demonstrated benefits associated with da vinci surgery and its value relative to other techniques. we also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the mis market. we believe that many are focused on adding capability to manual mis systems. because many of these developments are aimed at mis, we believe that our da vinci surgical system may prove complementary to some these new technologies. in addition, a number of companies are using or planning to use robots and computers in surgery, including but not limited to sofar s.p.a., eterne, and titan medical, inc. companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. in addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. our revenues may be adversely impacted if our competitors develop and introduce products that compete in our markets. intellectual property we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright, and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes. we generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. for example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. we also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own large and robust patent portfolio. 11 table of contents as of december 31, 2011, we held ownership or exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 1,000 u.s. and foreign patents and more than 1,000 u.s. and foreign patent applications. we intend to continue filing new patent applications in the united states and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology. patents are granted for finite terms and eventually expire. upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a patent enter the public domain. while our patents are an important element of our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. government regulation our products and operations are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the fda, the state of california and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate compliance to these with the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to meet these standards could limit the ability to market our products in those regions which require compliance to such standards. examples of groups of such standards are electrical safety standards such as those of the international electrotechnical commission (e.g. iec 60601-ss series of standards), composition standards such as the reduction of hazardous substances (rohs) and waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directives. united states in the united states, the us food and drug administration (fda) regulates our products. the following is a chronological summary of our fda clinical clearances to date: july 2000 general laparoscopic procedures march 2001 non-cardiac thoracoscopic procedures may 2001 prostatectomy procedures november 2002 cardiotomy procedures july 2004 cardiac revascularization procedures march 2005 urologic surgical procedures april 2005 gynecologic surgical procedures june 2005 pediatric surgical procedures december 2009 transoral otolaryngologic surgical procedures december 2011 single-site laparoscopic cholecystectomy the fda regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing distribution and service of medical devices in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in addition, the fda regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the united states to international markets and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad. under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (ffdca), medical devices are classified into one of three classes class i, class ii or class iii depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. our current products are class ii medical devices. class ii devices are those which are subject to general controls and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the fda, and clearance by 12 table of contents the fda. premarket review and clearance by the fda for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process. for most class ii devices, the manufacturer must submit to the fda a premarket notification submission, demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent in intended use and technology to a predicate device that is either: 1. a device that has grandfather marketing status because it was legally marketed prior to may 28, 1976, the date upon which the medical device amendments of 1976 were enacted, or 2. a class i or ii device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process. if the fda agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the united states. the fda has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission. as a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. the fda may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. if the fda determines that the device, or its intended use, is not substantially equivalent, the fda may deny the request for clearance and may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into class iii, and the device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-marketing approval (pma) requirements. after a device receives fda 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pre-market approval application (pma) approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance for a particular change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease u.s. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. the fda and the federal trade commission (ftc) also regulate the advertising claims of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or approvals or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the united states have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the fda good manufacturing practice (gmp), requirements contained in its quality system regulation (qsr). the qsr covers, among other things, the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of a company products. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with fda regulation, the manufacturer own procedures, specifications and testing as well as distribution and postmarket experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda 510(k) clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the united states. a company facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the fda, which may issue reports known as form fda 483 or notices of inspectional observations which list instances where the fda inspector believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if the observations are sufficiently serious or the manufacturer fails to respond appropriately, the fda may issue warning letters, which are notices of intended enforcement actions against the manufacturer. these enforcement actions could include legal actions, including fines and total shutdown of production facilities, seizure of product, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the united states, and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. in the united states, fda inspections usually occur every two years. a recent inspection of the company facilities occurred in july 2010 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing observations relating to complaint handling and manufacturing/inspection handling. we responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. no further enforcement action was taken or threatened by the fda. the fda audited our sunnyvale headquarters in january 2012 and has not issued a form fda 483 as a result of this most recent audit. however, we cannot assure that, upon 13 table of contents re-inspection, the fda will agree that our actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure that the fda will not find other deficiencies in our compliance with the qsr and other postmarket regulations. in particular, the failure to adequately correct observations from a previous inspection frequently results in a warning letter. our wholly owned subsidiary in mexicali, mexico has a proper establishment registration but has never been fda inspected. to greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include periodic inspections, inspections by third party auditors, and specialized documentation. failure to meet all the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support and receive reimbursement for the use of our products in these countries. in addition to the above, we may seek to use products which have not yet been cleared or approved for particular indications in clinical studies or trials in the u.s. or other countries. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such use may also be regulated by local and institutional requirements and policy generally including review by an ethics committee or institutional review board (irb). failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject the company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot assure that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. products manufactured outside the united states by or for us are subject to u.s. customs and fda inspection upon entry into the united states. we must demonstrate equivalent compliance of such products to u.s. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays. california regulation the state of california requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and subjects us to periodic inspection as a medical device manufacturer. our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in july 2011 and were found to be in compliance. in accordance with the state of california regulations, the license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information. foreign regulation in order for us to market our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations in other countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. failure to obtain regulatory approval and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive shonin approval. in november 2009, we received shonin approval from the mhlw for our da vinci surgical system in japan. we are currently working to obtain specific reimbursement for da vinci procedures in japan. to date, we have not received reimbursement approvals in japan and there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement approvals will be obtained, if at all. if we are not successful in obtaining market authorization, certifications and adequate procedure reimbursements or obtaining approvals for 14 table of contents future products and procedures, then the demand for our products in japan could be limited. we have partnered with the experienced regulatory team from johnson &amp; johnson k.k. medical company (japan) in our japanese regulatory process and we are continuing to work with them to establish our own subsidiary and transfer the responsibilities for regulatory support of our products in japan to our subsidiary, intuitive surgical k.k. we continue to partner with adachi co., ltd as our separate independent distributor in japan who is responsible for marketing, selling and servicing our products in japan. commercialization of medical devices in europe is regulated by the european union (eu). the eu presently requires that all medical products bear the conformit&eacute; europ&eacute;enne (ce) mark, for compliance with the medical device directive (mdd) (93/42/eec) as amended. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and performance mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu and those affiliated which accept the ce mark. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to affix the ce mark on products, a recognized european notified body must certify a manufacturer quality system for compliance with international and european requirements. we have received authorization from danish medical devices certification (dgm), a recognized european notified body and agent of the danish government, to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and accessories. to maintain authorization to apply the ce mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. if we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu. regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. these regulations typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products, may impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. in addition, local regulations may apply which govern the use of our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. third-party coverage and reimbursement in the united states and international markets where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all covered surgical procedures. governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and physicians for surgery when the procedures are considered medically necessary. in the united states, the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms), administers the medicare and medicaid programs. generally, reimbursement for professional services performed at the hospital by physicians is reported under separate billing codes issued by the american medical association (ama), known as current procedural terminology (cpt), codes. physician reimbursement is based on a prospective payment system based on the professional service rendered. in addition, cms and the national center for health statistics (nchs) are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to billing codes known as icd-9-cm codes used by hospitals to report inpatient procedures. cms generally reimburses hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay based on a prospective payment system that is determined by a classification system known as medicare-severity diagnostic related groupings (drgs) and ambulatory payment classifications (apcs) for hospital outpatient services. ms-drgs are assigned using a number of factors including the principal diagnosis, major procedures, discharged status, patient age and complicating secondary diagnoses among other things. 15 table of contents on october 1, 2008, cms and nchs issued a new family of icd-9-cm procedure codes for robotically assisted procedures. for laparoscopic procedures completed with the da vinci surgical system, u.s. hospitals are expected to report the primary surgical procedure code, along with icd-9-cm 17.42, to describe a laparoscopic robotic assisted procedure. the purpose of the icd-9-cm family of procedure codes, 17.4x, is to gather data on robotic assisted surgical procedures. it does not influence the amount paid to hospitals. a surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the same ms-drg. governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor and other factors. because both hospitals and physicians receive the same reimbursement amount for their respective services regardless of the actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care and is unrelated to the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs that hospitals incur in purchasing our products. domestic institutions typically bill for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. because our da vinci surgical system has been cleared for commercial distribution in the united states by the fda, medicare coverage and reimbursement are generally available for the primary surgical procedure using our device. we believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. in such circumstances, we may need to seek a unique cpt code for robotic-assisted surgery from the ama and/or work with cms to obtain coverage and/or establish a higher reimbursement amount. if an application for a unique code or modifier is required, reimbursement for specific uses of our products may be unavailable until an appropriate new code is granted. the application process, from filing until adoption of a new code, can take two or more years. in countries outside the united states, reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. in most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. additionally, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain european countries. to effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek international reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. in japan, we intend to seek reimbursement approvals from the government for procedures performed with our products. the timing of these approvals can vary significantly, and could significantly impact our ability to commercialize our products in japan. in some countries patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services. however, such co-pay practices are not common in some countries, including japan. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca), which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. one of the principal aims of the ppaca as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million americans who are currently uninsured. the consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are currently unknown. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions among other things. this includes new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturers will have to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain u.s. medical device revenues. though there are some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax applies to most of our products and product candidates sold within the united states. 16 table of contents the ppaca provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research extend the initiatives of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, also known as the stimulus package, which included $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. this stimulus funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or synthesizing research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products. the ppaca appropriates additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research. although congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it remains unclear how the research will impact current medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies. a number of state governors have strenuously opposed certain of the ppaca provisions, and initiated lawsuits challenging its constitutionality. these challenges are pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the u.s. supreme court. the u.s. congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the ppaca. at this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the ppaca, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. most recently, on august 2, 2011, the u.s. president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation automatic reduction to several government programs. this includes aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on certain development projects. the taxes imposed by ppaca and the expansion in the government role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would affect our ability to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. employees as of december 31, 2011, we had 1,924 employees, 258 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 609 in manufacturing and service and 1,057 in marketing, sales, and administrative activities. none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. access to reports we make our periodic and current reports, including our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, our code of business conduct and ethics policy and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission. our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com and the reports are filed under sec filings, on the company investor relations portion of our website. we periodically webcast company announcements, product launch events and executive presentations which can be viewed via our investor relations website. additionally, we provide notifications of our material news including sec filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our investor relations web site. the contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 17 table of contents we operate our business as one segment as defined by generally accepted accounting principles. our financial results for the three years ended december 31, 2011 are discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this annual report. intuitive surgical, inc. was founded in 1995. we are a delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1266 kifer road, sunnyvale, california 94086. our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com. item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could materially adversely affect our company. during 2008 and 2009, the global economy experienced a severe downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, the credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. more recently, credit and sovereign debt issues have destabilized certain european economies as well and thereby increased global macroeconomic uncertainties. uncertainty about current global economic conditions continue to pose a risk as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit. there could be additional effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays, and the inability of our customers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if conditions worsen or if the improved economic conditions are slower than anticipated, our forecasted demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and the market price of our stock. 18 table of contents because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors products or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than da vinci surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. in addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. for example, sofar s.p.a, an italian medical device company, supported by the european commission joint research centre, has developed a telesurgical robot system. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. as a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we experience long and variable capital sales cycles and seasonality in our business, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable. this approval process can be lengthy. in addition, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines. as a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, and lighter in the third and first fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. recently, we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpoplexies, myomectomies, and certain other surgeries. many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. historically, we have experienced lower procedure counts in the first and third fiscal quarter and higher procedure counts in the fourth fiscal quarter. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases. the above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these 19 table of contents fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. in addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. international sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our international activities. our business currently depends in part on our activities in europe and other foreign markets. revenue from markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 22%, 20%, and 21% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. these challenges include: failure to obtain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the united states; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. a large portion of our international sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in international markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, which subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. in addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them. please see our risk factor below titled unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily for the euro and the british pound. we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary based on our assessment of the relevant risks, opportunities and expenses. our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 20 table of contents if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components and computer software, any of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems. we cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors or performance problems in the future. if we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. the use of our products could result in product liability and negligence claims that could be expensive, divert management attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims. the medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause injury or death. there is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also be subject to product liability lawsuits. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. a product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. product liability claims have been made against us in the past. a product liability or negligence claim or any product recalls could also harm our reputation or result in a decline in revenues. if a patient is harmed during a da vinci surgical procedure, even in the absence of any alleged system malfunction or defect, we can be exposed to negligence claims based on alleged inadequacies in our surgeon training, our training of intuitive personnel, or in our proctoring programs. a negligence claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. negligence claims have been made against us in the past. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; 21 table of contents component supply shortages; import or export restrictions on components, materials or technology; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. in the united states, hospitals generally bill the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the u.s. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party coverage and reimbursements may affect demand for our products for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. 22 table of contents if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. for example, the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan and their aftermath have created economic uncertainty in japan that may disrupt economic activities in japan for a substantial period of time, including a reduction in hospital spending. our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in california, a seismically active region. a natural disaster in any of our major markets in north america or europe could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or our business may be harmed. we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, we purchased our korean distributor in january 2012. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. 23 table of contents unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. on august 6, 2010, a purported class action lawsuit was filed against us and several of our officers and directors in the united states district court for the northern district of california seeking unspecified damages on behalf of a putative class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock between february 1, 2008 and january 7, 2009. the complaint alleges that we violated federal securities laws by making allegedly false and misleading statements and omitting certain material facts in our filings with the securities and exchange commission. two purported derivative actions making substantially similar allegations were filed in the superior court of california for the county of santa clara shortly thereafter. those actions are described more fully under part i, item 3. legal proceedings. the results of these lawsuits and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. accordingly, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses, if any. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. if we do not prevail in the purported class action lawsuit or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, possibly materially. we are subject to significant, uninsured liabilities. for certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. for example, we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not insure for the underlying losses, and we do not carry earthquake insurance, among other types of coverage that we do not maintain. in addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors and officers insurance or products liability insurance may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases self-insure completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we use estimates, make judgments and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. as these estimates, judgments, and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. in addition, we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes and da vinci procedures completed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. our estimates of surgical market sizes or da vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations but are used to estimate the progress of our business. estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and da vinci procedures may vary over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee and other factors. in addition, 24 table of contents from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and da vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations a number of factors may harm our future effective tax rates including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could harm net income for future periods. we may realize losses on our investments in auction rate securities or be unable to liquidate these investments at desired times and in desired amounts. at december 31, 2011, we held $16.4 million in auction rate securities (ars), whose underlying assets are student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. since the auctions for these securities have continued to fail since february 2008, these investments are not currently trading and therefore do not have a readily determinable market value. accordingly, the estimated fair value of the ars no longer approximates par value. accordingly, changes in associated market value during the year ended december 31, 2011 have been recorded through other comprehensive income. if the market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income or impairment charges. we may not be able to liquidate these investments unless the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the security matures. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. 25 table of contents our business requires us to use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information (pii). this may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. we require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. we also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. these security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. we may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service and may harm our business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of pii, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of the company products and services could decrease. we would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. risks relating to our regulatory environment healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the u.s. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the ppaca, which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. one of the principal aims of the ppaca as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million americans who are currently uninsured. the consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are unknown and speculative at this point. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions among other things. this includes new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturer will have to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain u.s. medical device revenues. though there are some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax does apply to all of our products and product candidates sold within the united states. the ppaca provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research extend the initiatives of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, also known as the stimulus package, which included $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. this stimulus funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or synthesizing research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products. the ppaca appropriates additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research. although congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it remains unclear how the research will impact current medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies. a number of state governors have strenuously opposed certain of the ppaca provisions, and initiated lawsuits challenging its constitutionality. these challenges are pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the u.s. supreme court. the u.s. congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, 26 table of contents including possible repeal of the ppaca. at this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the ppaca, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. most recently, on august 2, 2011, the u.s. president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation automatic reduction to several government programs. this includes aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. we expect that the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on certain development projects. the taxes imposed by the ppaca and the expansion in the government role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party coverage and reimbursements may affect demand for our products. the u. s. government has in the past considered, is currently considering and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. state and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted similar types of policies. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the united states or elsewhere, and current uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. we are unable to predict whether other healthcare legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect any legislation or regulation would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that are intended to induce hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. further, the recently enacted ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the ppaca provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. moreover, some states, such as california, massachusetts and vermont, mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, 27 table of contents which can be substantial and include potential exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. the ppaca also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013. such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning september 30, 2013. in addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. on december 14, 2011, the cms released its proposed rule implementing these provisions, providing further clarification to ambiguous or unclear statutory language and providing instructions for manufacturers to comply with such requirements. the cms estimates that approximately 1,000 medical device and medical supply companies will be required to comply with the disclosure requirements and that the average cost per entity will be approximately $170,000 in the first year. the cms is currently soliciting comments to the proposed rule until february 17, 2012. in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties. compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the united states and/or abroad. these numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the fda. the fda regulates the development, bench and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, sales, distribution and postmarket support of medical devices in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the ffdca. clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application (pma) for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the united states. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the united states. furthermore, the 28 table of contents fda may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. regulatory policy affecting our products can change at any time. the changes and their impact on our business cannot be accurately predicted. changes in the fda 510(k) process could make approval more difficult to obtain, increase delay, add uncertainty and have other significant adverse effects on our ability to obtain and maintain approval for our products. the fda may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a pma, which is typically a much more complex, lengthy and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, or the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board (irb) approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption (ide) application. most of our products to date have been considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the united states for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certainty that clinical trials will meet desired endpoints, produce meaningful or useful data and be free of unexpected adverse effects, or that the fda will accept the validity of foreign clinical study data cannot be assured, and such uncertainty could preclude or delay market clearance or authorizations resulting in significant financial costs and reduced revenue. complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: continued compliance to the qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; the medical device reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; adequate use of the corrective and preventive actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest same; and the reporting of corrections and removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health. 29 table of contents we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a regulatory letter to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance. we have modified the labeling, advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to highlight specific procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) clearances. we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. we also have modified the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system since obtaining 510(k) clearance in ways that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. computer motion, which we acquired in 2003, also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or computer motion products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. an fda inspection occurred in july 2010 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing deficiencies under the qsr relating to complaint handling and manufacturing/inspection handling. we later responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure that the fda will not find other observations in our compliance with the qsr and other postmarket regulations. in particular, failure to satisfy the fda that corrections to a previous inspectional observation have been adequately completed is frequently grounds for a warning letter. our wholly owned manufacturing facility in mexicali, mexico has a proper establishment registration but has never been fda inspected. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to market and sell our products in foreign countries. to be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries which may differ substantially from those of the united states. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or to obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the authorization to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and have maintained this authorization continuously since that time. from time to time we seek the authorization to affix the ce mark to new or modified products. subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our notified body, dgm. 30 table of contents as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark authorizations we have already obtained including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives to enable this path to ce marking. we cannot be certain we will be able to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu and many affiliated countries that accept the ce mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in november 2009, we received shonin approval from the japanese mhlw for our da vinci surgical system and certain of our instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci procedures. we may seek additional approvals for other products and/or procedures, however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, because only a subset of our instruments have received shonin approval, it is possible that approved procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. to date, we have not received reimbursement approvals in japan. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or other manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, and/or recall some products which would result in product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the fda and other regulatory agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr and other regulatory requirements. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization (iso) quality system standards as well as european directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in europe. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. our last fda inspection occurred in july 2010 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing deficiencies under the qsr relating to complaint handling and manufacturing/inspection handling. we responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda may determine that our corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. the failure to correct observations from previous inspections is a significant cause of warning letters, which could adversely impact our operations. we continue to be subject to fda inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. our sunnyvale, california facility is licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we are subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services food and drug branch and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship any products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 31 table of contents risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to replace our expiring patents, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. we believe new competitors will emerge in medical robotics. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies as older patents expire. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, our ability to prevent others from using our intellectual property could be adversely affected, resulting in harm to our business. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be u.s. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present or future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. 32 table of contents we cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with several industry partners. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts or investors expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. our products typically have a lengthy sales cycle. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; 33 table of contents third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2010, the nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $388.01 and a low of $247.50 and during fiscal 2011, it reached a high of $466.30 and a low of $267.40. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; and political uncertainties. in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past, especially recently. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including us have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. consolidated cash flow data year ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 677.6 $ 545.8 $ 392.2 investing activities (479.0 ) (494.3 ) (299.5 ) financing activities (12.4 ) 7.7 (66.2 ) effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (0.2 ) (0.8 ) 0.3 net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 186.0 $ 58.4 $ 26.8 48 table of contents operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2011, cash flow from operations of $677.6 million exceeded our net income of $495.1 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $202.4 million during the year ended december 31, 2011. 2) cash used in working capital during the year ended december 31, 2011 was approximately $19.9 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other liabilities. inventory increased by $25.3 million or 29% in 2011 due to our business growth, expanded product offerings, and safety stocks acquired for key components. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $28.1 million or 22% in 2011 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $37.8 million or 17% in 2011, primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2011. during the year ended december 31, 2010, cash flow from operations of $545.8 million exceeded our net income of $381.8 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $147.0 million during the year ended december 31, 2010. 2) cash provided by working capital during the year ended december 31, 2010 was approximately $17.0 million. inventory increased by $29.2 million or 51% in 2010. the growth in inventory reflects increased revenue, increases to ensure adequate supply of key components as december 31 st , 2010 quantities were below optimal levels and inventory associated with new product introductions. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $26.5 million or 26% in 2010 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $60.1 million or 35% in 2010, primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2010. during the year ended december 31, 2009, cash flow from operations of $392.2 million exceeded our net income of $232.6 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $121.6 million during the year ended december 31, 2009. 2) cash provided by working capital and other assets during the year ended december 31, 2009 was approximately $38.0 million. accounts receivable increased $35.3 million or 21% in 2009, primarily reflecting increased revenue. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $21.3 million or 27% in 2009, which is primarily related to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $52.4 million or 41% in 2009, reflecting changes in the volume of our business and timing of vendor payments and an increase in unrecognized tax benefits. 49 table of contents investing activities net cash used in investing activities during the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 consisted primarily of purchases of investments (net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments) of $396.1 million, $398.3 million and $246.1 million, respectively, and purchases of property and equipment and licensing of intellectual property of $82.9 million, $96.0 million and $53.4 million, respectively. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s. treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and/or tax exempt municipal notes (some of which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, cash deposits and money market funds. we are not a capital-intensive business. financing activities net cash used in financing activities in 2011 consisted primarily of $331.8 million used for the repurchase of 1.0 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $260.6 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $58.8 million. net cash provided by financing activities in 2010 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $141.1 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $65.2 million, offset by $198.6 million for the repurchase of approximately 0.7 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions. net cash used in financing activities in 2009 consisted primarily of $150.0 million used for the repurchase of 1.4 million shares of our common stock through an accelerated repurchase program, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $58.7 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $25.1 million. our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products investments. in 2011, we made substantial investments in our commercial operations, product development activities, facilities and intellectual property. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2011 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years operating leases $ 7.3 $ 2.7 $ 3.5 $ 0.9 $ 0.2 purchase commitments and obligations 225.5 225.1 0.4 total contractual obligations $ 232.8 $ 227.8 $ 3.9 $ 0.9 $ 0.2 operating leases. we lease office spaces in the united states, switzerland, mexico, japan and china. we also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are 50 table of contents considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and development arrangements. payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and have not been included in the table above. other commitments. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2011, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states (u.s. gaap), which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries and government agencies, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds (some of which may have an auction reset feature). the securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weighted-average maturity of our investments excluding auction rate securities as of december 31, 2011 was approximately 1.1 years. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which 55 table of contents could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $5.5 million as of december 31, 2011. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. the recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. at december 31, 2011, we held approximately $16.4 million of municipal bonds with an auction reset feature ( auction rate securities or ars ) whose underlying assets are student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. these ars represent less than 1% of our total investment portfolio. since february 2008, these auctions have failed and therefore continue to be illiquid and we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. as a result, our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. if the issuers are unable to service their current obligations, raise funds in the future and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, since a portion of our operations consists of sales activities outside of the united states, we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s.dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable and currency bank balances. our primary exposure is with the euro. for the year ended december 31, 2011, sales denominated in foreign currencies were approximately 11% of total revenue. the objective of our hedging program is to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. for the year ended december 31, 2011, our revenue would have decreased by approximately $1.8 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate would have strengthened by 10%. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies with which we have exposure, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions at december 31, 2011 would have resulted in a $0.8 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. to mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. we monitor ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust its exposure to various counterparties. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors. our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. part i item 1. business in this report, intuitive surgical, intuitive, the company, we, us, and our refer to intuitive surgical, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. intuitive &reg; , intuitive surgical &reg; , da vinci &reg; , da vinci &reg; , da vinci &reg; si hd surgical system , da vinci hd surgical system &reg; , da vinci &reg; si , da vinci &reg; si-e , endowrist &reg; , endowrist &reg; one , endowrist &reg; stapler 45, single-site , dvstat, firefly and insite &reg; are trademarks of intuitive surgical, inc. company background intuitive designs, manufactures and markets da vinci surgical systems and related instruments and accessories, which taken together, are advanced surgical systems that we believe represent a new generation of surgery. we believe that this new generation of surgery, which we call da vinci surgery, combines the benefits of minimally invasive surgery ( mis ) for patients with the ease of use, precision and dexterity of open surgery. a da vinci surgical system consists of a surgeon console, a patient-side cart and a high performance vision system. the da vinci surgical system translates a surgeon natural hand movements, which are performed on instrument controls at a console, into corresponding micro-movements of instruments positioned inside the patient through small incisions, or ports. the da vinci surgical system is designed to provide its operating surgeon with intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability and 3-d, high-definition ( hd ) vision while simultaneously allowing the surgeon to work through the small ports of mis. 3 table of contents da vinci surgery open surgery remains the predominant form of surgery and is used in almost every area of the body. however, the large incisions required for open surgery create trauma to the patient, resulting in longer hospitalization and recovery times, increased hospitalization costs and additional pain and suffering relative to mis, where mis is available. over the past two decades, mis has reduced trauma to the patient by allowing selected surgeries to be performed through small ports rather than large incisions, often resulting in shorter recovery times, fewer complications and reduced hospitalization costs. mis has been widely adopted for certain surgical procedures, but it has not been widely adopted for complex reconstructive surgeries. the da vinci surgical system enables surgeons to extend the benefits of mis to many patients typically receiving open surgery by using computational, robotic and imaging technologies to overcome many of the limitations of both open surgery and conventional mis. surgeons operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a high resolution, 3-d, hd image of the surgical field. this immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. while seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the way he or she has been trained to do in open surgery. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon hand. in designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy to use. our systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons: immersive 3-d visualization. our vision system includes a 3-d endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. the da vinci surgical system provides visualization of target anatomy with natural depth-of-field, enhanced contrast and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. with our new firefly fluorescence imaging upgrade, surgeons can use specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature beneath tissue surfaces in real-time. precise and tremor-free endoscope control. our imaging system also incorporates our proprietary navigator camera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left and right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image. intuitive instrument movements. our technology is designed to transform the surgeon natural hand movements outside the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient body. for example, with the da vinci surgical system, a hand movement to the right outside the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. in contrast, conventional mis instruments are long rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. in conventional mis, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon hand and surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to translate their hand movements in this backward environment. endowrist instruments. our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human hand and wrist. most of our proprietary instruments, which we call endowrist instruments, incorporate wrist joints that enable surgeons to reach behind tissues and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery. scaled, tremor filtered instrument movement. with our technology, the surgeon can also use motion scaling, a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient body. motion scaling is designed to allow precision and control for delicate tasks. in addition, our technology provides the filtering of tremor inherent in a surgeon hands. 4 table of contents improved surgeon ergonomics. the da vinci surgical system is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. the da vinci surgical system design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon console. since the da vinci surgical system robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue. multi-specialty surgical platform. the da vinci surgical system is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures, within our targeted gynecologic, urologic, general surgery, cardiothoracic, head and neck specialties. to date, surgeons have used the da vinci surgical system to perform dozens of different types of surgical procedures. we do not expect all of these different types of procedures to become widely adopted however, they demonstrate the flexibility of the da vinci surgical system in approaching anatomy. products: da vinci surgical system we have commercialized three generations of da vinci surgical system the da vinci si surgical system, the da vinci surgical system and the standard da vinci surgical system. da vinci surgical systems are comprised of the following components: surgeon console . the da vinci surgical system allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic console viewing a 3-d image of the surgical field. the surgeon fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with the surgeon hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. using electronic hardware, software, algorithms and mechanics our technology translates the surgeon hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of the endowrist instruments positioned inside the patient. on our most current system, da vinci si , a second surgeon console, may be used in two possible ways: to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. with the da vinci si , a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of the da vinci instruments during the surgery. in addition, surgeons can control 3-d virtual pointers to augment the dual surgeon experience. patient-side cart . the patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the patient. up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned as appropriate, and then locked into place. at least two arms hold our endowrist instruments, one representing the surgeon left hand and one representing the surgeon right hand. a third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. an optional fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a third endowrist instrument to perform additional tasks. the fourth instrument arm is a standard integrated feature on the da vinci si and da vinci surgical systems and is available as a field upgrade on three-arm standard da vinci and three-arm da vinci surgical systems and da vinci si-e surgical systems. 3-d vision system. our vision system includes our insite 3-d endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. the resulting 3-d image has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker and low cross fading. a digital zoom feature in the 3-d, hd vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and thereby reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. the 3-d, hd vision is a standard integrated feature on da vinci and da vinci si surgical systems sold today and as an upgrade option to our existing customers who own a da vinci surgical system without hd vision. da vinci skills simulator . the simulator is a practice tool which began shipping in early 2011 for the da vinci si surgical system that gives a user the opportunity to practice his or her facility with the surgeon console controls. the simulator incorporates three-dimensional, physics-based computer simulation 5 table of contents technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment. the user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. upon completion of a skills exercise, the simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. the skills simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for the da vinci si surgical system. most da vinci skills simulators have been sold in connection with new da vinci si surgical system sales. firefly fluorescence imaging . in the first quarter of 2011, we launched our firefly fluorescence imaging product ( firefly ) for use with the da vinci si surgical system in the united states ( u.s. ) and europe. this new imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da vinci camera head, endoscope and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy. firefly kits configured into new da vinci system sales are included in systems revenue, while firefly kits sold separately for existing systems are included in instruments and accessories revenue. adoption of firefly is progressing, with its primary utilization in partial nephrectomy procedures. firefly is also being used in certain gynecology and general surgery cases. instruments and accessories endowrist instruments . we manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate wrist joints for natural dexterity, with tips customized for various surgical procedures. endowrist instruments are offered in a variety of sizes, primarily 5mm and 8mm diameter sizes. at their tips, the various endowrist instruments include forceps, scissors, electrocautery, scalpels and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon from open surgery and conventional mis. a variety of endowrist instruments are selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. our endowrist instruments are sterilizable and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. a programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the system and instruments work together. in addition, the chip will not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed number of procedures so that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. we typically develop new types of endowrist instruments to support additional types of surgical procedures. da vinci single-site. da vinci single-site is a set of non-wristed instruments and accessories that allow da vinci si surgical systems to work through a single incision, typically in the umbilicus, rather than multiple incisions. single incision surgery is intended to minimize trauma to patients by reducing the number of ports required to enter the body and is typically utilized for less complex surgery than multi-port surgery. non-robotic single incision surgery today is typically performed with modified laparoscopic instruments. early clinical adoption of this manual technique has been mostly positive, however, physicians have reported that manual single incision surgery is technically and ergonomically challenging. da vinci single-site instruments and accessories were designed to address these issues. in february 2011, we received the ce mark for our da vinci single-site instrument kit and began selling these new products in europe. the majority of da vinci single-site procedures performed in europe to date has been cholecystectomies. in december 2011, we received fda regulatory clearance to market da vinci single-site instrumentation in the u.s. for laparoscopic cholecystectomy procedures, our only u.s. clearance to date. we are encouraged by early hospital, surgeon, and patient interest in da vinci single-site , with over 450 u.s. customers having purchased da vinci single-site kits as of december 31, 2012. however, as we are in the early stages of the single site cholecystectomy adoption curve in the u.s. market, we are not able to predict the extent to which da vinci single-site may be adopted. we are working on expanding our da vinci single-site instrument offering to enable its use in additional indications. during the third quarter of 2012, we submitted our 510(k) submission for da vinci single-site instruments and indications for use in benign hysterectomy and salpingo oophorectomy. endowrist one vessel sealer . in december 2011, we received fda clearance for our endowrist one vessel sealer. the endowrist one vessel sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7 mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the 6 table of contents jaws of the instrument. this instrument enables da vinci si surgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of da vinci surgery. this instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures. clinical response to the endowrist one vessel sealer has been encouraging, with positive commentary on precision, articulation, vessel sealing quality and thermal spread. we expect applications for the endowrist one vessel sealer to be centered on general surgery and gynecologic oncology procedures. we are still in the early stages of introducing endowrist one vessel sealer and are not able to predict the extent to which the endowrist one vessel sealer may be adopted. endowrist stapler 45 instrument . in october 2012, we received fda clearance for our endowrist stapler 45 instrument with blue and green 45 mm reloads. the endowrist stapler 45 is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection and/or creation of anastomoses in general, gynecologic and urologic surgery. this instrument enables operators of the da vinci si to precisely position and fire the stapler. we expect its initial surgical use to be directed towards colorectal procedures. we intend to rollout the endowrist stapler 45 to limited number of customers in early 2013 and slowly to a broader set of customers later in 2013. as we have not begun selling endowrist stapler 45, we are not able to predict the extent to which the endowrist stapler 45 may be adopted. accessory products . we sell various accessory products which are used in conjunction with the da vinci surgical system as surgical procedures are performed. accessory products include sterile drapes used to ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products such as replacement 3-d stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other items that facilitate use of the system. business strategy our objective is to bring the benefits of mis to as many patients as possible through the use of computer aided robotic technologies. our priorities to accomplish this are as follows: 1. patient value. we believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as: patient value = procedure efficacy/invasiveness . here procedure efficacy is a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness is how disruptive and painful the treatment is itself. when the patient value of a da vinci procedure is deemed higher than alternate treatment options, patients may seek out surgeons and hospitals that offer that specific da vinci procedure, potentially resulting in a local market share shift for the specific treatment. adoption occurs procedure by procedure, and is driven by the relative patient value of da vinci procedures compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state. we believe most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. our goal is to provide products to surgeons who in turn provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options. 2. surgeon value. we train surgeons on the use of our da vinci surgical system and assist them in building their practices by their delivery of superior patient value. we seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy to use products. 3. hospital value. we assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value using da vinci thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced length of patient stay. given the priorities above, our strategy is to improve our candidate surgical procedures in two basic ways: 1. convert candidate open procedures to da vinci urgery. we believe that our technology has the potential to convert a significant percentage of our targeted open procedures to da vinci surgery. 2. facilitate difficult mis operations. we believe that several surgical procedures that are seldom performed today using conventional mis techniques can be performed more routinely using da vinci 7 table of contents surgery. some procedures have been adopted for mis techniques but are extremely difficult and are currently performed by a limited number of highly skilled surgeons. we believe our da vinci surgical system will enable more surgeons at more institutions to perform such procedures. clinical applications we are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and applications for da vinci surgery an important part of our creative process. we primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value, surgeon value and hospital value. we currently focus on five surgical specialties: urologic surgery, gynecologic surgery, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. key procedures which we are focused on include da vinci prostatectomy ( dvp ), da vinci hysterectomy ( dvh ), da vinci cholecystectomy, da vinci colon and rectal procedures, da vinci partial nephrectomy, da vinci myomectomy, da vinci sacrocolpopexy, da vinci mitral valve repair, da vinci lobectomy, and da vinci transoral robotic surgery (for cancers of the throat). in 2012, we estimate that over 80% of the procedures performed were in the urologic and gynecologic specialties. representative surgical applications are described below. urologic surgery prostatectomy. radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. the standard approach to removal of the prostate has been via an open surgical procedure. the conventional laparoscopic approach is an option, but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. the da vinci surgical system has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique. partial nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor.) partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. excluding da vinci surgery, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy, and hand assisted laparoscopy, which is a hybrid of open and laparoscopic technique. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients. pyeloplasty. pyeloplasty is the surgical reconstruction or revision of the renal pelvis to drain and decompress the kidney. in nearly all cases, the goal of pyeloplasty surgery is to relieve an uretero-pelvic junction obstruction. excluding da vinci surgery, there are two common surgical approaches to performing pyeloplasty: open surgical technique and laparoscopy. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of pyeloplasty patients. gynecologic surgery hysterectomy. removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and is performed for a variety of underlying benign and malignant conditions. hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy), a vaginal approach, or mis techniques, which include both laparoscopic and robotic approaches. despite the availability of non-robotic mis approaches to hysterectomy, most hysterectomies performed prior to da vinci surgery were open surgeries. da vinci has enabled a large number of women to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an alternative to an open hysterectomy. myomectomy. myomectomy, or removal of a myoma/fibroid, is a surgical procedure performed when uterine preservation is sought, typically to preserve fertility. due to the substantial suturing required for this procedure, the standard surgical approach remains an open incision. there are some highly skilled 8 table of contents gynecological laparoscopists who perform laparoscopic myomectomies, but laparoscopic myomectomy has remained a minority of myomectomies performed. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of myomectomy patients. sacrocolpopexy. the abdominal (open) sacrocolpopexy is one of the most successful operations for vaginal vault prolapse. sacrocolpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). a sacrocolpopexy can be performed using conventional laparoscopic technique, however, it is generally described as difficult and cumbersome to perform. surgeons have reported that the da vinci surgical system capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of mis to a broader range of sacrocolpopexy patients. endometriosis resection . endometriosis is a gynecological medical condition in which cells from the lining of the uterus (endometrium) migrate outside the uterus. endometriosis can range from mild to severe, and in the worst cases, can infiltrate bowel, ureters, ovaries and other organs in the female pelvis. because of the diffuse and extensive nature of severe endometriosis, it can be difficult to treat either pharmaceutically or surgically. a successful resection of endometriosis involves both seeing lesions and their careful resection. surgeons have reported that da vinci surgery may enable a larger number of women with endometriosis to receive an effective mis approach to their endometriosis resection. cardiothoracic surgery mitral valve repair. when patients are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen. since mitral valve repairs are considered to be more technically challenging than mitral valve replacements, they are only performed approximately 50% of the time. several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when using da vinci . thoracic surgery. conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision and esophagectomy. many thoracic procedures remain open procedures. surgeons have reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients. general surgery cholecystectomy. cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of the gall bladder, is a commonly performed general surgery procedure. cholecystectomy is the primary method for treating of gallstones and other gall bladder diseases. most cholecystectomies are performed using multi-port mis techniques, although some surgeons choose to perform cholecystectomy using manual single-port instrumentation. with the 2011 european introduction of da vinci single site instruments followed by the u.s. introduction in 2012, single-site robotic cholecystectomies are now being performed. using da vinci single site instruments, many of the technical challenges of manual single-port mis are reduced as surgeons benefit from additional precision, control and improved ergonomics. multi-port robotic cholecystectomies are also being performed. colorectal surgery. these procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular the rectum or colon. common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection and abdominoperineal resection. conventional laparoscopy is not widely employed to treat these types of diseases, due to their high degree of difficulty. surgeons have 9 table of contents reported that the use of the da vinci surgery system in colorectal surgery has enabled them to offer mis approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients. gastric bypass. a growing body of literature is pointing to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its secondary effects, such as diabetes. laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass ( lrygb ) is the most commonly performed surgical procedure for morbid obesity in the u.s. the lrygb can be a technically challenging procedure because of the suturing, stapling and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. surgeons using the da vinci surgical system have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to lrygb. head and neck surgery transoral surgery. head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation, or a combination of both. surgical resection performed by an open approach may require a jaw-splitting mandibulotomy. this procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. mia approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated by conventional endoscopic tools. chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions however literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients ability to speak and swallow normally. surgeons have reported that da vinci transoral surgery allows them to treat cancers occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line-of-sight limitations of conventional trans-oral surgery. thyroidectomy. thyroid cancer is most commonly treated by thyroidectomy, the removal of all or part of the thyroid gland. complete resection of the cancer and surrounding gland is required for proper oncologic outcomes. open surgery is an effective surgery in terms of oncologic control and has low complication rates. however, it leaves a prominent neck scar. surgeons, predominantly in asia, are now using the da vinci surgical system to perform thyroidectomies entering the body from the axilla (armpit) in order to avoid the visible scar on the neck. at this time, the procedure is not within the indications for use for the da vinci system in the u.s. clinical summary we believe there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the da vinci surgical system and we work closely with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in which da vinci may bring value. as of december 31, 2012, we had an installed base of 2,585 da vinci surgical systems, including 1,878 in the u.s., 416 in europe, and 291 in the rest of the world. during the year ended december 31, 2012, we estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 450,000 surgical procedures of various types in hospitals throughout the world. of those da vinci procedures performed in 2012, we estimate that approximately 184,000 were dvh procedures and approximately 109,000 were dvp procedures. we believe that the u.s. preventive services task force recommendation against psa screening, as well as suggested changes in treatment pattern for low risk prostate cancer away from definitive treatment have led to a decline in our dvp business. we believe the reduction in dvp procedures in the u.s. primarily reflects pressures from reduced levels of prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) testing and increased use of non-surgical disease management. dvps and total procedures have declined in europe from the first quarter of 2012 to the second, third and fourth quarters of 2012, reflecting seasonality, austerity measures, psa testing, non-surgical disease management trends, and other company specific matters. 10 table of contents sales and customer support sales model we provide our products through a direct sales organization in the u.s., most of western europe excluding spain, portugal, italy and greece and, beginning with our acquisition of our korean distributor on january 11, 2012, korea. beginning in 2013, we will also provide our product through a direct sales organization in the czech republic, slovakia, and hungary, whereas prior to 2013, these markets were served by a distributor. in the remainder of our world markets, we provide our products through distributors. no one customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. our direct sales organization is essentially split into a capital sales team, responsible for selling da vinci surgical systems, and a clinical sales team, responsible for supporting da vinci surgical system use in surgical procedures performed at our hospital accounts. the initial da vinci surgical system sale into an account is viewed as a major capital equipment purchase by our customers and typically has a lengthy sales cycle that can be affected by the timing of their budgeting cycles. capital sales activities include educating surgeons and hospital staff across multiple surgical specialties on the benefits of da vinci surgery and the clinical applications that our technology enables. we also train our sales organization to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including clinical benefits of da vinci surgery, reductions in complications and length of stay, and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction and volume. as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately 92 capital sales employees, compared to 89 as of december 31, 2011. a portion of our customers acquire da vinci surgical systems through a capital lease or operating lease with third-party leasing companies. in these instances, we typically sell the da vinci surgical system to the hospital or leasing company, and the hospital enters into an independent arrangement with the leasing company. we treat these leasing transactions the same as sales transactions for purposes of recognizing revenue for the sale. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2012, approximately 14% of the da vinci surgical systems purchased were leased through third-party leasing companies at the time of purchase. our clinical sales team works on site at the hospitals, interacting with surgeons, operating room staff, and hospital administrators to develop and sustain successful robotics surgery programs. they assist the hospital in identifying surgeons who have an interest in robotic surgery delivering da vinci benefits. our clinical sales team provides the current clinical information on robotic surgery practices and new product applications to the hospital teams. our clinical sales organization has generally grown in relation to growth in the installed base of da vinci systems and the total number of procedures performed. as of december 31, 2012, we had 685 clinical sales employees, compared to 556 as of december 31, 2011. this organization is expected to grow as our business expands. our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. orders received are typically shipped within one business day. direct customers who purchase a new da vinci surgical system typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories within one month of receiving their system. our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first and third fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. in addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarter. procedures treating benign conditions are typically higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter. benign procedures represented a higher percentage of our total procedures in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth impact the timing of instrument and accessory and capital purchases. 11 table of contents customer support and training programs we have a network of field service engineers across the u.s., europe and asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. this infrastructure of service and support specialists offer a full complement of services, including 24/7 support, installation, repair and maintenance for our customers. we generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs. we provide basic system training that teaches the fundamental operating principles of the da vinci surgical system to surgeons, surgical assistants and operating room nurses. we have established training centers where initial system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. surgeons may also practice their robotic surgery technique using our da vinci skills simulator. in addition, we help facilitate the proctoring of surgeons who are new to da vinci surgery by experienced da vinci surgical system users. proctors provide training to other surgeons on how to perform certain surgical procedures with da vinci surgical systems. research and development we focus our research and development efforts on providing our customers with new products and product improvements that enable them to perform mis procedures with less difficulty. we employ research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. we invested $170.0 million, $140.2 million, and $116.0 million of research and development expenses for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. this investment is applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. we establish strategic alliances with other medical device and technology based companies to complement our research and development effort. to date, these alliances have taken several forms, including cooperation in the areas of product development, training, procedure development and marketing activities. we have formed alliances with several companies, including, but not limited to, erbe elektromedizin gmbh, johnson &amp; johnson, olympus/gyrus, novadaq technologies, inc. and mimic technologies, inc. manufacturing we manufacture our da vinci surgical systems at our facility in sunnyvale, california. we manufacture our endowrist instruments at our sunnyvale facility and mexicali, mexico facility. we purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). we purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods. competition we consider our primary competition to be existing open surgery, conventional mis in complex cases, drug therapies, radiation treatment and emerging interventional surgical approaches. our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability as well as educating hospitals, surgeons and patients on the demonstrated results associated with da vinci surgery and its value relative to other techniques. we also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the mis market. we believe that many are focused on adding capability to manual mis systems. because many of these developments are aimed at mis, we believe that our da vinci surgical system may prove complementary to some these new technologies. 12 table of contents moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g., single-site tm , stapler, and vessel sealer) to our offerings that through now have largely been limited to the domains of open surgery and/or conventional mis, we face greater competition from larger and well established companies such as ethicon endo-surgery, inc and covidien. furthermore, a number of companies are using or planning to use robots and computers in surgery, including but not limited to sofar s.p.a., eterne, imris, and titan medical, inc. companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. in addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. our revenues may be adversely impacted if our competitors develop and introduce products that compete in our markets. intellectual property we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright, and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes. we generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. for example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. we also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own large and robust patent portfolio. as of december 31, 2012, we held ownership or exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 1,300 u.s. and foreign patents and more than 1,100 u.s. and foreign patent applications. we intend to continue filing new patent applications in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology. patents are granted for finite terms and eventually expire. upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a patent enter the public domain. while our patents are an important element of our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. government regulation our products and operations are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the fda, the state of california and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate compliance to these with the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to meet these standards could limit the ability to market our products in those regions which require compliance to such standards. examples of groups of such standards are electrical safety standards such as those of the international electrotechnical commission (e.g. iec 60601-ss series of standards), composition standards such as the reduction of hazardous substances ( rohs ) and waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directives. united states in the u.s. the fda regulates our products. the fda regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing, distribution and service of medical devices in the u.s. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in addition, the fda regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the u.s. to international markets and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad. 13 table of contents under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act ( ffdca ), medical devices are classified into one of three classes class i, class ii or class iii depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. our current products are class ii medical devices. class ii devices are those which are subject to general controls and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the fda, and clearance by the fda. premarket review and clearance by the fda for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process. for most class ii devices, the manufacturer must submit to the fda a premarket notification submission, demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent in intended use and technology to a predicate device that is either: 1. a device that has grandfather marketing status because it was legally marketed prior to may 28, 1976, the date upon which the medical device amendments of 1976 were enacted, or 2. a class i or ii device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process. if the fda agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the u.s. the fda has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission or 30 days for special 510(k) submissions which have a more restrictive scope and generally specific or very limited changes to a legally marketed device. as a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. the fda may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. if the fda determines that the device, or its intended use, is not substantially equivalent, the fda may deny the request for clearance. although unlikely for the types of products marketed by isi, the fda may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into class iii, and the device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-marketing approval ( pma ) requirements. after a device receives fda 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pma application approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance for a particular change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease u.s. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising claims of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or approvals or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the u.s. have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the fda good manufacturing practice ( gmp ), requirements contained in its quality system regulation ( qsr ) and associated regulations and guidance. the qsr covers, among other things, the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping, installation and service of a company products. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with fda regulation, the manufacturer own procedures, specifications and testing as well as distribution and postmarket experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda 510(k) clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the u.s. a company facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the fda, which may issue reports known as form fda 483 or notices of inspectional observations which list instances where the fda inspector believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if the observations are sufficiently serious or the manufacturer fails to respond appropriately, the fda may issue warning letters, 14 table of contents or untitled letters, which are notices of intended enforcement actions against the manufacturer. these enforcement actions could include legal actions, including fines and total shutdown of production facilities, seizure of product, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the u.s., and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. in the u.s., fda inspections usually occur every two years. a recent inspection of the company facilities occurred in july 2010 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing observations relating to complaint handling and manufacturing/inspection handling. we responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. no further enforcement action was taken or threatened by the fda. the fda audited our sunnyvale headquarters in january 2012 and has not issued a form fda 483 as a result of this most recent audit. we cannot assure that the fda will not find other deficiencies in our compliance with the qsr and other postmarket regulations. in particular, the failure to adequately correct observations from a previous inspection frequently results in a warning letter. our wholly owned subsidiary in mexicali, mexico has a proper establishment registration but has never been fda inspected. to greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include periodic inspections, inspections by third party auditors, and specialized documentation. failure to meet all the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support and receive reimbursement for the use of our products in these countries. in addition to the above, we may seek to legally use products that have not yet been cleared or approved for particular indications in clinical studies or trials in the u.s. or other countries. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such use may also be regulated by local and institutional requirements and policy generally including review by an ethics committee or institutional review board (irb). failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject the company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot assure that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. products manufactured outside the u.s. by or for us are subject to u.s. customs and fda inspection upon entry into the u.s. we must demonstrate compliance of such products to u.s. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays. california regulation the state of california requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and until 2012 conducted periodic inspection of medical device manufacturers. our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in july 2011 and were found to be in compliance. in accordance with the state of california regulations, the license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information. although the state of california has announced suspension of routine periodic inspections, there can be no assurance the state of california will not resume such inspections or conduct such inspections under specific circumstances which are not yet known. 15 table of contents foreign regulation in order for us to market our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations in other countries. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. some countries have regulatory review processes which are substantially longer than u.s. processes. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive regulatory ( shonin ) approval. in november 2009, we received shonin approval from the japanese ministry of health, labor, and welfare ( mhlw ) for our da vinci surgical system in japan. these sales were primarily made to early adopters. since receiving the approval, we have been focusing our efforts on obtaining specific reimbursement for da vinci procedures in japan and building our own organization, intuitive surgical japan. prior to april 2012, we had partnered with the experienced regulatory team from johnson &amp; johnson k.k. medical company ( jjkk ) in our japanese regulatory process. in april 2012, the marketing authorization application for da vinci products was transferred to intuitive surgical japan from jjkk, and intuitive surgical japan now has primary responsibility for regulatory support of our products in japan. we continue to partner with adachi co., ltd as our separate independent distribution partner in japan who is responsible for marketing, selling, and servicing our products in japan. effective april 2012, we obtained national reimbursement for dvp procedures in japan. in october 2012, we obtained approval for da vinci si systems in japan from the mhlw and we are in the process of obtaining importation and other licenses to provide the product. if we are not successful in obtaining additional regulatory clearances, importation licenses, and adequate procedure reimbursements for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products in japan could be limited. commercialization of medical devices in europe is regulated by the european union ( eu ). the eu presently requires that all medical products bear the conformit&eacute; europ&eacute;enne ( ce ) mark, for compliance with the medical device directive (93/42/eec) as amended. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and performance mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu and those affiliated which accept the ce mark. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to affix the ce mark on products, a recognized european notified body must certify a manufacturer quality system and design dossier for compliance with international and european requirements. we have received authorization from dgm denmark a/s, a recognized european notified body and part of nemko presafe a/s to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and accessories. to maintain authorization to apply the ce mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. as of 2012, notified bodies, including dgm, are also required to conduct periodic unannounced inspections. if we modify our existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. we do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu or those whose marketing authorizations are based on the ce mark. regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. these regulations typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign 16 table of contents country in which we market our products, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. in addition, local regulations may apply which govern the use of our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. all such regulations are revised from time to time and in general are increasing in complexity, and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing required. there can be no assurance the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. there are further regulations governing the importation, marketing, sale, distribution, use and service as well as the removal and disposal of medical devices. failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions, fines and prevent us from marketing our products in these regions. third-party coverage and reimbursement in the u.s. and most international markets where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all covered surgical procedures. governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and physicians for surgery when the procedure is considered medically necessary. in the u.s., the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), administers the medicare and medicaid programs. generally, reimbursement for professional services performed at a facility by physicians is reported under billing codes issued by the american medical association ( ama ), known as current procedural terminology ( cpt ), codes. physician reimbursement is based on a prospective payment system and determined by the total relative value of the professional service rendered. in addition, cms and the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to billing codes known as icd-9-cm procedural codes used by hospitals to report inpatient procedures. cms generally reimburses hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay based on a prospective payment system that is determined by a classification system known as medicare-severity diagnostic related groupings ( ms-drgs ). ms-drgs are assigned using a number of factors including the principal diagnosis, major procedures, discharged status, patient age and complicating secondary diagnoses among other things. hospital outpatient services, reported by cpt codes, are assigned to clinically relevant ambulatory payment classifications ( apcs ). on october 1, 2008, cms and nchs issued a new family of icd-9-cm procedure codes for robotically assisted procedures. for laparoscopic procedures completed with the da vinci surgical system, u.s. hospitals are expected to report the primary surgical procedure code, along with icd-9-cm 17.42, to describe a laparoscopic robotic assisted procedure. the purpose of the icd-9-cm family of procedure codes, 17.4x, is to gather data on robotic assisted surgical procedures. a surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the clinically relevant ms-drg. governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, confidential contract terms, and other factors. because both hospitals and physicians may receive the same reimbursement for their respective services, with or without robotics, regardless of actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care and is unrelated to the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products. domestic institutions typically bill for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. because our da vinci surgical system has been cleared for commercial distribution in the u.s. by the fda, coverage and reimbursement by payers are generally determined by the medical necessity of the primary surgical procedure. we believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies for appropriately selected patients. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. 17 table of contents in countries outside the u.s., reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. in most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. additionally, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain european countries. to effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek international reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. in april 2012, radical prostatectomy utilizing the davinci surgical system was approved for reimbursement in japan. we intend to seek reimbursement approvals from the japanese government for additional procedures performed with our products. the timing of these approvals can vary significantly, and could significantly impact our ability to commercialize our products in japan. in some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such co-pay practices are not common in most countries. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the ppaca ), which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact healthcare providers, insurers, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. one of the principal aims of the ppaca is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million americans who are currently uninsured. the consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are currently unknown. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund this coverage expansion, including, but not limited to new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturers will have to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% on certain u.s. medical device revenues. we estimate that under this provision, the company will pay an excise tax of approximately 1% of total global revenue. the tax will be included as a cost of revenue and a reduction of product gross margin. the ppaca also has provisions to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. it remains unclear how this research will influence future medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions, as well as influence other third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies. as congress and state governments determine how to implement the ppaca, the consequences of the ppaca on the medical device industry and the sale of our products are currently unknown. the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the taxes imposed by ppaca and the expansion in the government role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits, lower reimbursement from payors for procedures that use our products and/or reduced procedural volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would affect our ability to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. employees as of december 31, 2012, we had 2,362 employees, 310 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 778 in manufacturing and service and 1,274 in marketing, sales, and administrative activities. none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. access to reports we make our periodic and current reports, including our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, our code of business conduct and ethics policy and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after such material is 18 table of contents electronically filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission. our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com and the reports are filed under sec filings, on the company investor relations portion of our website. periodically, we webcast company announcements, product launch events and executive presentations which can be viewed via our investor relations pages on our website. additionally, we provide notifications of our material news including sec filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our investor relations website. the contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. we operate our business as one segment as defined by generally accepted accounting principles. our financial results for the year ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are discussed in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this annual report. intuitive surgical, inc. was founded in 1995. we are a delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1266 kifer road, sunnyvale, california 94086. our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com . item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. the da vinci surgical system and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance of da vinci surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. we believe that physicians and third-party payors acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. for example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. in addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives. we expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. we may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. economic conditions could materially adversely affect our company. during 2008 and 2009, the global economy experienced a severe downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, the credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. more recently, credit and sovereign debt issues have destabilized certain european economies as well and thereby increased global macroeconomic uncertainties. uncertainty about current global economic conditions continue to pose a risk as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on 19 table of contents credit. there could be additional effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays, and the inability of our customers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. if conditions worsen or if the improved economic conditions are slower than anticipated, our forecasted demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and the market price of our stock. because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors products or may not accept da vinci surgery, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. da vinci surgery is a new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. these competitive treatment options include conventional mis, open surgery, interventional approaches or pharmacological regimens. some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than da vinci surgery. we cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies. in addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future. for example, sofar s.p.a, an italian medical device company, supported by the european commission joint research centre, has developed a telesurgical robot system. our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. if a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. as a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. we experience long and variable capital sales cycles and seasonality in our business, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results. our da vinci surgical system has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable. this approval process can be lengthy. in addition, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines. as a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. historically, our sales of da vinci surgical systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, and lighter in the third and first fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. 20 table of contents recently, we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpopexies, myomectomies, and certain other surgeries. many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. historically, we have experienced lower procedure counts in the first and third fiscal quarter and higher procedure counts in the fourth fiscal quarter. timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases. the above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. these fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. in addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. international sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. our growth may be limited if we are unable to successfully manage our international activities. our business currently depends in part on our activities in europe and other foreign markets. revenue from markets outside of the united states accounted for approximately 21%, 22%, and 20% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. we are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. these challenges include: failure to obtain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the united states; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products; inability or regulatory limitations of our ability to move goods across borders; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. a large portion of our international sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in international markets. if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, which subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. in addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them. please see our risk factor below titled unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. 21 table of contents we may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily for the euro and the british pound. we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary based on our assessment of the relevant risks, opportunities and expenses. our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, hospitals may not purchase our products and our reputation may suffer. our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components and computer software, any of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. in the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems. we cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors or performance problems in the future. if we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; product recalls; regulatory actions; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. the use of our products could result in product liability and negligence claims that could be expensive, divert management attention and harm our business. our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims. the medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause injury or death. there is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also be subject to product liability lawsuits. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. a product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. product liability claims have been made against us in the past. a product liability or negligence claim or any product recalls could also harm our reputation or result in a decline in revenues. if a patient is 22 table of contents harmed during a da vinci surgical procedure, even in the absence of any alleged system malfunction or defect, we can be exposed to negligence claims based on alleged inadequacies in our surgeon training, our training of our personnel, or in our proctoring programs. a negligence claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. negligence claims have been made against us in the past. we may encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. manufacturing our products is a complex process. we may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; import or export restrictions on components, materials or technology; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. if demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. if we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged. our reliance on sole and single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers. we generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. while alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. a disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. if institutions or surgeons are unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support our business. in the united states, hospitals generally bill the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as medicare, medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. if hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored 23 table of contents health care payment systems and third-party payors. reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. in addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the united states are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. please see our risk factor below titled healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the u.s. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party coverage and reimbursements may affect demand for our products for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our ability to compete will be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software and optics. attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. the loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. for example, the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan and their aftermath have created economic uncertainty in japan that may disrupt economic activities in japan for a substantial period of time, including a reduction in hospital spending. our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in california, a seismically active region. a natural disaster in any of our major markets in north america or europe could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or our business may be harmed. we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, we purchased our korean distributor in january 2012. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. 24 table of contents integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. we are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. on august 6, 2010, a purported class action lawsuit was filed against us and several of our officers and directors in the united states district court for the northern district of california seeking unspecified damages on behalf of a putative class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock between february 1, 2008 and january 7, 2009. the complaint alleges that we violated federal securities laws by making allegedly false and misleading statements and omitting certain material facts in our filings with the securities and exchange commission. two purported derivative actions making substantially similar allegations were filed in the superior court of california for the county of santa clara shortly thereafter. those actions are described more fully under part i, item 3. legal proceedings. the results of these lawsuits and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. accordingly, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses, if any. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. if we do not prevail in the purported class action lawsuit or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, possibly materially. we are subject to significant, uninsured liabilities. for certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. for example, we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not insure for the underlying losses, and we do not carry earthquake insurance, among other types of coverage that we do not maintain. in addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors and officers insurance or products liability insurance may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases self-insure completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 25 table of contents we use estimates, make judgments and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. as these estimates, judgments, and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary. the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time may lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results. in addition, we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes and da vinci procedures completed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. our estimates of surgical market sizes or da vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations but are used to estimate the progress of our business. estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and da vinci procedures may vary over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee and other factors. in addition, from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and da vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations a number of factors may harm our future effective tax rates including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could harm net income for future periods. we may realize losses on our investments in auction rate securities or be unable to liquidate these investments at desired times and in desired amounts. at december 31, 2012, we held $7.4 million in auction rate securities ( ars ), whose underlying assets are student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. since the auctions for these securities have continued to fail since february 2008, these investments are not currently trading and therefore do not have a readily determinable market value. accordingly, the estimated fair value of the ars no longer approximates par value. accordingly, changes in associated market value during the year ended december 31, 2011 have been recorded through other comprehensive income. if the market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income or impairment charges. we may not be able to liquidate these investments unless the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the security matures. 26 table of contents disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations and financial condition. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. our business requires us to use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information ( pii ). this may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. we require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. we also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. these security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. we may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service and may harm our business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of pii, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of the company products and services could decrease. we would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. risks relating to our regulatory environment healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the u.s. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in march 2010, the u.s. president signed the ppaca, which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. one of the principal aims of the ppaca as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million americans who are currently uninsured. the consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are unknown and speculative at this point. the ppaca contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions among other things. this includes new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturers will have to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain u.s. medical device revenues. though there are some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax does apply to all or most of our products sold within the united states. 27 table of contents the ppaca provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research extend the initiatives of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, also known as the stimulus package, which included $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. this stimulus funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or conducting research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products. the ppaca appropriates additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research. although congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it remains unclear how the research will impact current medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies. a number of state governors have strenuously opposed certain of the ppaca provisions, and initiated lawsuits challenging its constitutionality. these challenges are pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the u.s. supreme court. the u.s. congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the ppaca. at this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the ppaca, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. more recently, on august 2, 2011, the u.s. president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the joint select committee on deficit reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to congress. the joint select committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation automatic reduction to several government programs. unless modified by congress or the president, this could include aggregate reductions to medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. we expect that the ppaca, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on certain development projects. the taxes imposed by the ppaca and the expansion in the government role in the u.s. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party coverage and reimbursements may affect demand for our products. the u. s. government has in the past considered, is currently considering and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. state and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted similar types of policies. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the united states or elsewhere, and current uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. we are unable to predict whether other healthcare legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect any legislation or regulation would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act requires us to track and disclose the source of certain metals used in manufacturing which may stem from minerals (so called conflict minerals ) which originate in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining regions. these metals include tantalum, 28 table of contents tin, gold and tungsten. these metals are central to the technology industry and are present in some of our products as component parts. in most cases no acceptable alternative material exists which has the necessary properties. it is not possible to determine the source of the metals by analysis but instead a good faith description of the source of the intermediate components and raw materials must be obtained. the components which incorporate those metals may originate from many sources and we purchase fabricated products from manufacturers who may have a long and difficult to trace supply chain. as the spot price of these materials varies, producers of the metal intermediates can be expected to change the mix of sources used, and components and assemblies which we buy may have a mix of sources as their origin. we are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. there can be no assurance we can obtain this information from intermediate producers who are unwilling or unable to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. these metals are subject to price fluctuations and shortages which can affect our ability to obtain the manufactured materials we rely on at favorable terms or from consistent sources. these changes could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture and market our devices and products. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that could be considered to induce hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. further, the recently enacted ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the ppaca provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. moreover, some states, such as california, massachusetts and vermont, mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws. these laws may affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial and include potential exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. the ppaca also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any transfer of value made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format. in addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for knowing failures ), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. on december 14, 2011, the cms released its proposed rule implementing these provisions, providing further clarification to ambiguous or unclear statutory language and providing instructions for manufacturers to comply with such requirements. the cms estimates that approximately 1,000 medical device and medical supply companies will be required to comply with the disclosure requirements and that the average cost per entity will be approximately $170,000 in the first year. a final ruling has not been issued. in addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. the shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the 29 table of contents possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance of one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties. compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the united states and/or abroad. these numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. our products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory review process. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory authorizations, we will not be able to provide our products in the united states. our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the united states by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ). the fda regulates the development, bench and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, sales, distribution and postmarket support and reporting of medical devices in the united states to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. in order for us to market certain products for use in the united states, we generally must first obtain clearance from the fda pursuant to section 510(k) of the federal food drug and cosmetic act ( ffdca ). clearance under section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered ( pre-amendment ) status. if we significantly modify our products after they receive fda clearance, the fda may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application ( pma ) for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the united states. in addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status, we will be required to obtain fda approval by submitting a pma. the fda may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or pma submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain fda clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the united states. furthermore, the fda may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. regulatory policy affecting our products can change at any time. the changes and their impact on our business cannot be accurately predicted. changes in the fda 510(k) process could make approval more difficult to obtain, increase delay, add uncertainty and have other significant adverse effects on our ability to obtain and maintain approval for our products. the fda may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a pma, which is typically a much more complex, lengthy and burdensome application than a 510(k). to support a pma, the fda would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or pma approval, in which case the fda may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. in addition, the fda may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or pma approval. product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. any delays or failure to obtain fda clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the fda on new product use, or the costs of obtaining fda clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a medical device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain institutional review board ( irb ) approval of the proposed investigation. in addition, if the clinical study 30 table of contents involves a significant risk (as defined by the fda) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain fda approval of an investigational device exemption ( ide ) application. many of our products to date have been or would be considered significant risk devices requiring ide approval prior to investigational use. we may not be able to obtain fda and/or irb approval to undertake clinical trials in the united states for any new devices we intend to market in the united states in the future. if we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to conduct studies which comply with the ide and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certainty that clinical trials will meet desired endpoints, produce meaningful or useful data and be free of unexpected adverse effects, or that the fda will accept the validity of foreign clinical study data cannot be assured, and such uncertainty could preclude or delay market clearance or authorizations resulting in significant financial costs and reduced revenue. in addition, some products may be regulated by the fda as drugs, biologics or combination devices which carry still greater requirements for clinical trials, regulatory submissions and approvals. complying with fda regulations is a complex process, and our failure to comply fully could subject us to significant enforcement actions. because our products, including the da vinci surgical system, are commercially distributed, numerous quality and postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: continued compliance to the qsr, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the development and manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the fda general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses; stringent complaint reporting and medical device reporting regulations, which requires that manufacturers keep detailed records of investigations or complaints against their devices and to report to the fda if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; adequate use of the corrective and preventive actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest same; and the reporting of corrections and removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the fda recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may pose a risk to health. we are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the fda to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. if the fda finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from inspectional observations (form fda 483) to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products. our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance. we have created labeling, advertising and user training for the da vinci surgical system to describe specific surgical procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) indications for use stated in our 510(k) clearances. although we have relied on expert in-house and external staff, consultants and advisors, many of 31 table of contents whom were formerly employed by fda and familiar with fda requirements, we cannot assure that the fda would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da vinci surgical system for all such specific procedures. we also have modified the hardware and software in the da vinci surgical system since obtaining 510(k) clearance in ways that we do not believe require new 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure that the fda would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. computer motion, which we acquired in 2003, also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. the fda could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or computer motion products. we may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. an fda inspection occurred in july 2010 and the fda issued a form fda 483 listing deficiencies under the qsr relating to complaint handling and manufacturing/inspection handling. we responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions which were completed. in a subsequent fda inspection of our sunnyvale, california facility in january 2012, these corrections were reviewed by the fda investigator and no objections were noted. for the inspection in january 2012 no form fda 483 was issued and the establishment inspection report (eir) was issued on february 29, 2012. however, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the fda will find that our corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. we also cannot assure that the fda will not find other observations in our compliance with the qsr and other postmarket regulations. we have a wholly owned manufacturing facility located in mexicali, mexico which manufactures reusable and disposable surgical instruments. this facility is registered with the u.s. fda as well as mexican authorities. the facility is operated under u.s. and international quality system regulations including those applicable to canada, the european union and japan among others. our wholly owned manufacturing facility in mexicali, mexico has a proper establishment registration but has not been fda inspected to date. if the fda were to determine non-conformances in our product documentation or quality system compliance, they could hold indefinitely the importation of instruments at the border which would deprive us of the ability to sell and supply the majority of our customers until the fda requirements have been satisfied. similar supply disruptions could occur if key suppliers outside of u.s. were to encounter non-conformances with their documentation or quality system compliance. our products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. if we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we will not be able to provide our products in foreign countries. to be able to provide our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries which may differ substantially from those of the united states. these regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or to obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule. if we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. the eu requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the ce mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable european medical device directives. in order to obtain the authorization to affix the ce mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain european quality standards. in january 1999, we received permission to affix the ce mark to our da vinci surgical system and endowrist instruments and have maintained this authorization 32 table of contents continuously since that time. from time to time we seek the authorization to affix the ce mark to new or modified products. subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our notified body, dgm. as we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the ce mark to such products. in addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the ce mark authorizations we have already obtained including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives to enable this path to ce marking. we cannot be certain we will be able to affix the ce mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. if we are unable to maintain permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the eu and many affiliated countries that accept the ce mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some member states of the european union have additional requirements for registration and notification which may add to the time and effort to obtain market access. in addition, the regulations applied to end users of our products may increase over time, forcing us to provide additional solutions to regulations which do not apply directly to us, but which apply indirectly as they may limit our customers ability to use our products. in november 2009, we received shonin approval from the japanese ministry of health, labor and welfare (mhlw) for our da vinci surgical system and in october 2012, we received approval for our da vinci si system and various associated instruments and accessories for use in certain da vinci procedures. we may seek additional approvals for other products and/or procedures, however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. in addition, because only a subset of our instruments have received shonin approval, and reimbursement is an additional process to generate market acceptance, it is possible that approved procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. to date, we have received reimbursement approvals in japan for a limited set of procedures and products. if we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. these limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in japan. in addition, in january 2012 we acquired certain assets of our distributor in korea, bio-robotics. our da vinci system was approved in korea in april 2007 and our si system was approved in december 2009. our products are highly regulated in korea and we face many of the same risks and limitations on the commercialization of our products as in japan and the united states. if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or other manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, import/export of our products and/or recall some products which would result in significant product delivery delays and lost revenue. our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the fda and other regulatory agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practice requirements contained in the qsr and other regulatory requirements. we are also required to comply with international organization for standardization ( iso ) quality system standards as well as european directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in the european union. in addition, many countries such as canada and japan have very specific additional regulatory requirements for quality assurance and manufacturing. if we fail to continue to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements, as well as iso or other regulatory standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. our last fda inspection occurred in january 2012. the fda did not issue a form fda 483, also known as a notice of inspectional observations, and the establishment inspection report, dated february 29, 2012 has been received. in 2010 the fda issued a form fda 483 listing deficiencies under the qsr relating to complaint handling and manufacturing/inspection handling. we responded to each observation 33 table of contents with proposed corrective actions which were thereafter completed and verified. we continue to be subject to fda and certain other inspections at any time. maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. we cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with good manufacturing practice requirements or iso standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. our sunnyvale, california facility is licensed by the state of california to manufacture medical devices. we have been subject to periodic inspections by the california department of health services food and drug branch and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship some products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in 2012 the state of california announced suspension of routine inspections but this policy could be modified or inspections could be resumed for specific circumstances. in addition, both our sunnyvale, california and mexicali, mexico facilities are subject to periodic inspections by other regulatory bodies, including third party auditors on behalf of national regulatory authorities. compliance with multiple regulatory standards is complex, difficult and costly to maintain, and material deficiencies could result in significant limitations on our ability to manufacture, transport and sell our products in one or more countries. risks relating to our intellectual property if we are unable to replace our expiring patents, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. we believe new competitors will emerge in medical robotics. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies as older patents expire. if we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, our ability to prevent others from using our intellectual property could be adversely affected, resulting in harm to our business. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. we will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. the patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. we do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. we also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. we may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the united states. we also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. notwithstanding our efforts to protect our 34 table of contents intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. others may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to engage in costly disputes and, if we are not successful in defending ourselves, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. there may be u.s. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present or future technology. we do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. from time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents. we may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. we cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. in addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. we cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. the medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. if third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. if third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. we cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. in addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. our products rely on licenses from third parties, and if we lose access to these technologies, our revenues could decline. we rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. we have entered into license agreements with several industry partners. any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. if any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. the loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 35 table of contents risks relating to our trading markets our future operating results may be below securities analysts or investors expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. the revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues. our products typically have a lengthy sales cycle. in addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. if we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer. further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; product quality and supply problems; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; third-party payor reimbursement policies; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and the progress and results of clinical trials. our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. for example, during fiscal 2010, the nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $388.01 and a low of $247.50, during fiscal 2011, it reached a high of $466.30 and a low of $267.40, and during fiscal 2012, it reached a high of $588.28 and a low of $440.00. our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: announcements about us or our competitors; quarterly variations in operating results; introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; regulatory approvals and enforcement actions; changes in product pricing policies; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies; economic changes and overall market volatility; and political uncertainties. 36 table of contents in addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past, especially recently. this volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. in addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including us have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. if these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio. consolidated cash flow data years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 (in millions) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 814.2 $ 677.6 $ 545.8 investing activities (845.7 ) (479.0 ) (494.3 ) financing activities 119.2 (12.4 ) 7.7 effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 0.2 (0.2 ) (0.8 ) net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 87.9 $ 186.0 $ 58.4 53 table of contents operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2012, cash flow from operations of $814.2 million exceeded our net income of $656.6 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $223.1 million during the year ended december 31, 2012. 2) cash used in working capital during the year ended december 31, 2012 was approximately $65.5 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other liabilities. accounts receivable increased by $68.9 million, or 24%, in 2012 reflecting timing of our system sales. inventory increased by $7.1 million, or 8%, in 2012 due to our business growth, expanded product offerings, and safety stocks acquired for key components. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $30.5 million, or 20%, in 2012 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased by $17.1 million in 2012 primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2012. during the year ended december 31, 2011, cash flow from operations of $677.6 million exceeded our net income of $495.1 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $202.4 million during the year ended december 31, 2011. 2) cash used in working capital during the year ended december 31, 2011 was approximately $19.9 million. working capital is comprised primarily of accounts receivable, inventory, deferred revenue and other liabilities. inventory increased by $25.3 million or 29% in 2011 due to our business growth, expanded product offerings, and safety stocks acquired for key components. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $28.1 million or 22% in 2011 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $37.8 million or 17% in 2011, primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2011. during the year ended december 31, 2010, cash flow from operations of $545.8 million exceeded our net income of $381.8 million for two primary reasons: 1) our net income included substantial non-cash charges in the form of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, taxes and depreciation. these non-cash charges totaled $147.0 million during the year ended december 31, 2010. 2) cash provided by working capital during the year ended december 31, 2010 was approximately $17.0 million. inventory increased by $29.2 million or 51% in 2010. the growth in inventory reflects increased revenue, increases to ensure adequate supply of key components as december 31, 2010 quantities were below optimal levels and inventory associated with new product introductions. deferred revenue, which includes deferred service contract revenue that is being amortized over the service contract period, increased $26.5 million or 26% in 2010 primarily due to the increase in the number of installed systems for which service contracts exist. other 54 table of contents liabilities including accounts payable, accrued compensation and employee benefits, and accrued liabilities increased $60.1 million or 35% in 2010, primarily due to timing of vendor, tax and employee compensation payments during 2010. investing activities net cash used in investing activities during the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 consisted primarily of purchases of investments (net of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments) of $703.9 million, $396.1 million, and $398.3 million, respectively, and purchases of property and equipment and licensing of intellectual property of $114.2 million, $82.9 million, and $96.0 million, respectively. we invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. our investment portfolio may at any time contain investments in u.s. treasury and u.s. government agency securities, taxable and/or tax exempt municipal notes (some of which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, cash deposits and money market funds. we are not a capital-intensive business. financing activities net cash proceeds provided by financing activities in 2012 consisted primarily of stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $263.3 million, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $94.2 million, offset by $238.3 million used for the repurchase of 0.4 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions. net cash used in financing activities in 2011 consisted primarily of $331.8 million used for the repurchase of 1.0 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions, offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $260.6 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $58.8 million. net cash provided by financing activities in 2010 consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $141.1 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $65.2 million, offset by $198.6 million for the repurchase of approximately 0.7 million shares of our common stock through open market transactions. our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products investments. in 2012, we made substantial investments in our commercial operations, product development activities, facilities and intellectual property. based upon our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided from operations. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2012 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years operating leases $ 8.5 $ 3.8 $ 4.1 $ 0.6 purchase commitments and obligations 292.2 292.2 total contractual obligations $ 300.7 $ 296.0 $ 4.1 $ 0.6 operating leases. we lease office spaces in the u.s., switzerland, mexico, japan and china. we also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. 55 table of contents purchase commitments and obligations. these amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services and acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. a majority of these purchase obligations are due within a year. although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and development arrangements. payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and have not been included in the table above. other commitments. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2012, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k promulgated under the exchange act. critical accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles in the ( u.s. gaap ), which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies, in notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate and market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including u.s. treasuries and government agencies, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds (some of which may have an auction reset feature). the securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weighted-average maturity of our investments excluding auction rate securities as of december 31, 2012 was approximately 1.1 years. if interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. a hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $8.2 million as of december 31, 2012. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. the uncertain financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. the credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. as of december 31, 2012, we held approximately $7.4 million of municipal bonds with an auction reset feature whose underlying assets are student loans that are substantially backed by the federal government. these ars represent less than 1% of our total investment portfolio. in february 2008, the auction market failed and the ars therefore continue to be illiquid. we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. as a result, our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited. if the issuers are unable to service their current obligations, raise funds in the future and/or maintain their credit ratings, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. foreign exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, because a portion of our operations consists of sales activities outside of the u.s., we have foreign exchange exposures to non-u.s. dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable and currency bank balances. our primary exposure is with the euro. for the year ended december 31, 2012, sales denominated in foreign currencies were approximately 9% of total revenue. the objective of our hedging program is to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. for the year ended december 31, 2012, our revenue would have decreased by approximately $7.8 million if the u.s. dollar exchange rate would have strengthened by 10%. we also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate against all currencies to 61 table of contents which we have exposure, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions as of december 31, 2012 would have resulted in a $2.2 million decrease in the carrying amounts of those net assets. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. to mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. we monitor ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust our exposure to various counterparties. our international operations are subject to risks typical of international operations, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 62 table of contents