quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. we manage our exposure to this risk by monitoring available financing alternatives and through development and application of credit granting policies. our strategy to manage exposure to changes in interest rates is unchanged from december 31, 1999. furthermore, we do not foresee any significant changes in our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or in how such exposure is managed in the near future. the following sensitivity analysis displays how our earnings and the fair values of certain instruments we hold are affected by changes in interest rates. we hold notes receivable that earn interest at variable rates. hypothetically, an immediate one percentage point change in interest rates would change annual interest income by $3 million, based on the balances of these notes receivable at december 29, 2000 and december 31, 1999. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our long-term fixed rate debt and long-term fixed rate notes receivable. based on the balances outstanding at december 29, 2000, and december 31, 1999, a hypothetical immediate one percentage point change in interest rates would change the fair value of our long-term fixed rate debt by $50 million and $41 million, respectively, and would change the fair value of long-term fixed rate notes receivable by $22 million and $5 million, respectively. although commercial paper is classified as long-term debt (based on our ability and intent to refinance it on a long-term basis) all commercial paper matures within two months of year-end. based on the balances of commercial paper outstanding at december 29, 2000, and december 31, 1999, a hypothetical one percentage point change in interest rates would change interest by $8 million for both periods, on an annualized basis. 22quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. we manage our exposure to this risk by monitoring available financing alternatives and through development and application of credit granting policies. our strategy to manage exposure to changes in interest rates is unchanged from december 29, 2000. furthermore, we do not foresee any significant changes in our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or in how such exposure is managed in the near future. the following sensitivity analysis displays how changes in interest rates affect our earnings and the fair values of certain instruments we hold. we hold notes receivable that earn interest at variable rates. hypothetically, an immediate 1 percentage point change in interest rates would change annual interest income by $5 million and $3 million, based on the respective balances of these notes receivable at december 28, 2001 and december 29, 2000. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our long-term fixed rate debt and long-term fixed rate notes receivable. based on the balances outstanding at december 28, 2001 and december 29, 2000, a hypothetical immediate 1 percentage point change in interest rates would change the fair value of our long-term fixed rate debt by $53 million and $50 million, respectively, and would change the fair value of long-term fixed rate notes receivable by $22 million in each year. 29quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. we manage our exposure to this risk by monitoring available financing alternatives and through development and application of credit granting policies. our strategy to manage exposure to changes in interest rates is unchanged from december 28, 2001. furthermore, we do not foresee any significant changes in our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or in how such exposure is managed in the near future. the following sensitivity analysis displays how changes in interest rates affect our earnings and the fair values of certain instruments we hold. we hold notes receivable that earn interest at variable rates. hypothetically, an immediate one percentage point change in interest rates would change annual interest income by $5 million and $5 million, based on the respective balances of these notes receivable at january 3, 2003 and december 28, 2001. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our long-term fixed rate debt and long-term fixed rate notes receivable. based on the balances outstanding at january 3, 2003 and december 28, 2001, a hypothetical immediate one percentage point change in interest rates would change the fair value of our long-term fixed rate debt by $42 million and $53 million, respectively, and would change the fair value of long-term fixed rate notes receivable by $20 million and $22 million, respectively, in each year. although commercial paper is classified as long-term debt (based on our ability and intent to refinance it on a long-term basis) all commercial paper matures within two months of year-end. based on the balance of commercial paper outstanding at january 3, 2003, a hypothetical one percentage point change in interest rates would change interest expense by $1 million on an annualized basis. 30quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and changes in foreign exchange rates. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates or in how such exposure is managed in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating rate timeshare and notes receivable, our residual interests retained in connection with the sale of timeshare intervals, and the fair value of our fixed rate notes receivable. changes in interest rates also impact our floating rate long-term debt and the fair value of our fixed rate long-term debt. we use derivative instruments as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. at january 2, 2004, we were party to the following derivative instruments: an interest rate swap agreement under which we receive a floating rate of interest and pay a fixed rate of interest. the swap modifies our interest rate exposure by effectively converting a note receivable with a fixed rate to a floating rate. the aggregate notional amount of the swap is $92 million and it matures in 2010. six outstanding interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk associated with the residual interests we retain in conjunction with our timeshare note sales. we are required by purchasers and/or rating agencies to utilize interest rate swaps to protect the excess spread within our sold note pools. the aggregate notional amount of the swaps is $726 million, and they expire through 2022. twenty-four forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the potential volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with variations in foreign exchange rates during fiscal year 2004. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the forward contracts is approximately $37 million, and the forward contracts expire throughout 2004. two forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exposure related to certain monetary assets denominated in pounds sterling. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the forward contracts is $34 million at january 2, 2004. 39 the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value of our derivatives and other financial instruments as of january 2, 2004: maturities by period 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 there - after total carrying amount total fair value assets - maturities represent principal receipts, fair values represent assets. timeshare notes receivable $ 15 $ 21 $ 17 $ 13 $ 13 $ 88 $ 167 $ 167 average interest rate 12.4% fixed rate notes receivable $ 26 $ 1 $ 190 $ 29 $ 89 $ 362 $ 697 $ 725 average interest rate 11.02% floating rate notes receivable $ 23 $ 28 $ 43 $ 140 $ 41 $ 24 $ 299 $ 299 average interest rate 6.24% residual interests $ 83 $ 39 $ 28 $ 19 $ 14 $ 20 $ 203 $ 203 average interest rate 5.62% liabilities - maturities represent principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed rate debt $ (63 ) $ (495 ) $ (13 ) $ (9 ) $ (303 ) $ (505 ) $ (1,388 ) $ (1,401 ) average interest rate 7.27% floating rate debt $ (1 ) $ $ $ (1 ) $ $ (3 ) $ (5 ) $ (5 ) average interest rate .01% convertible debt $ $ $ $ $ $ (62 ) $ (62 ) $ (43 ) average interest rate 0.75% derivatives - maturities represent notional amounts, fair values represent assets (liabilities). interest rate swaps: fixed to variable $ $ $ $ $ $ 590 $ (10 ) $ (10 ) average pay rate 4.53% average receive rate 1.34% variable to fixed $ $ $ $ $ $ 228 $ 8 $ 8 average pay rate 1.65% average receive rate 5.33% 101 forward foreign exchange contracts: fixed (euro) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 22 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1 $ 1 fixed (gpb) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 49 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 40quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates or in how such exposure is managed in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate timeshare and notes receivable, our residual interests retained in connection with the sale of timeshare intervals, and the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable. changes in interest rates also impact our floating-rate long-term debt and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we use derivative instruments as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. at december 31, 2004, we were party to the following derivative instruments: an interest rate swap agreement under which we receive a floating rate of interest and pay a fixed rate of interest. the swap modifies our interest rate exposure by effectively converting a note receivable with a fixed rate to a floating rate. the aggregate notional amount of the swap is $92 million and it matures in 2010. six outstanding interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk associated with the residual interests we retain in conjunction with our timeshare note sales. we are required by purchasers and/or rating agencies to utilize interest rate swaps to protect the excess spread within our sold note pools. the aggregate notional amount of the swaps is $535 million, and they expire through 2022. forward foreign exchange and option contracts to hedge the potential volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with variations in foreign exchange rates during fiscal year 2005. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the contracts is approximately $36 million, and they expire throughout 2005. forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exposure related to certain monetary assets denominated in pounds sterling. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the forward contracts is $36 million at december 31, 2004. 40 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value of our derivatives and other financial instruments as of december 31, 2004: ($ in millions) maturities by period 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total carrying amount total fair value assets - maturities represent principal receipts, fair values represent assets. timeshare notes receivable $ 26 $ 31 $ 28 $ 26 $ 26 $ 178 $ 315 $ 315 average interest rate 12.79 % fixed-rate notes receivable $ 12 $ 230 $ 20 $ 26 $ 1 $ 300 $ 589 $ 641 average interest rate 12.21 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 30 $ 53 $ 86 $ 24 $ 4 $ 156 $ 353 $ 353 average interest rate 7.15 % residual interests $ 63 $ 47 $ 28 $ 20 $ 13 $ 19 $ 190 $ 190 average interest rate 7.77 % liabilities - maturities represent principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (488 ) $ (14 ) $ (12 ) $ (306 ) $ (311 ) $ (192 ) $ (1,323 ) $ (1,348 ) average interest rate 7.44 % floating-rate debt $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ (2 ) $ (2 ) average interest rate 2.08 % derivatives - maturities represent notional amounts, fair values represent assets (liabilities). interest rate swaps: fixed to variable $ $ $ $ $ $ 468 $ (2 ) $ (2 ) average pay rate 4.36 % average receive rate 2.64 % variable to fixed $ $ $ $ $ $ 159 $ 2 $ 2 average pay rate 2.96 % average receive rate 5.23 % forward foreign exchange contracts: fixed (euro) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 21 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 1.30 fixed (gpb) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 51 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 1.88 41 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, including risks and uncertainties described below and other factors that we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the company and its financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following. the lodging industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel and timeshare properties for customers. we generally operate in markets that contain numerous competitors. each of our hotel and timeshare brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value and efficiency of our lodging products and services from those offered by others. if we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, this could limit our operating margins, diminish our market share and reduce our earnings. we are subject to the range of operating risks common to the hotel, timeshare and corporate apartment industries. the profitability of the hotels, vacation timeshare resorts and corporate apartments that we operate or franchise may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: (1) the availability of and demand for hotel rooms, timeshares and apartments; (2) international, national and regional economic and geopolitical conditions; (3) the impact of war and terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity) and heightened travel security measures instituted or business and leisure travel in response to war, terrorist activity or threats; (4) the desirability of particular locations and changes in travel patterns; (5) travelers fears of exposures to contagious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ) and avian flu; (6) the occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis or hurricanes; (7) taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, prices, interest rates, construction procedures and costs; (8) the availability and cost of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners to fund investments; (9) regional and national development of competing properties; (10) increases in wages and other labor costs, energy, healthcare, insurance, transportation and fuel, and other expenses central to the conduct of our business, including recent increases in energy costs and further increases forecasted by the department of energy for the winter of 2006; and (11) organized labor activities, including those in new york, san francisco, los angeles, waikiki beach and boston where some of our hotels are subject to collective bargaining agreements that will expire in 2006. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce the demand, and therefore the prices we are able to obtain, for hotel rooms, timeshare units and corporate apartments or could increase our costs and therefore reduce the profit of our lodging businesses. in addition, reduced demand for hotels could also give rise to losses under loans, guarantees and minority equity investments that we have made in connection with hotels that we manage. even where such factors do not reduce demand, our profit margins may suffer if we are unable to fully recover increased operating costs from our customers. 16 table of contents the uncertain pace and duration of the current growth environment in the lodging industry will continue to impact our financial results and growth. both the company and the lodging industry were hurt by several events occurring over the last few years, including the global economic downturn, the terrorist attacks on new york and washington in september 2001, the global outbreak of sars in 2003 and military action in iraq. business and leisure travel decreased and remained depressed as some potential travelers reduced or avoided discretionary travel in light of increased delays and safety concerns and economic declines stemming from an erosion in consumer confidence. although both the lodging and travel industries have now largely recovered, the duration, pace and full extent of the current growth environment remains unclear. moreover, the aftermath of hurricanes katrina, rita, and wilma and any negative long-term effect that gulf coast recovery efforts may have on the u.s. economy could set back or impede the progress of the industry and our recovery. accordingly, our financial results and growth could be harmed if that recovery stalls or is reversed. our lodging operations are subject to international, national and regional conditions. because we conduct our business on a national and international platform, our activities are susceptible to changes in the performance of regional and global economies. in recent years, our business has been hurt by decreases in travel resulting from recent economic conditions, the military action in iraq and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism. our future economic performance is similarly subject to the uncertain magnitude and duration of the economic recovery in the united states, the prospects of improving economic performance in other regions, the unknown pace of any business travel recovery that results and the occurrence of any future incidents in the countries in which we operate. actions by organized labor could reduce our profits in certain major market cities. employees at certain of our managed hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that will expire in 2006. these agreements affect 14 hotels in new york, san francisco, los angeles, waikiki beach and boston. potential labor activities could cause the diversion of business to hotels that are not involved in the negotiations, loss of group business in the affected cities and perhaps other cities, and/or increased labor costs. in 2005, affected hotels in these cities contributed approximately 2 percent of our combined base management, incentive management and franchise fee revenue. in 2005, we earned approximately 6 percent of our combined base management, incentive management and franchise fee revenue from downtown hotels (union and non-union) in affected markets. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our present growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue. moreover, we may not be able to enter into future collaborations, or to renew or enter into agreements in the future, on terms that are as favorable to us as those under existing collaborations and agreements. we may have disputes with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may, in some instances, be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners but have not always been able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has in the past resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. we depend on capital to buy and maintain hotels, and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both the company and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and maintenance of existing hotels depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we can exert little control. our ability to recover loan and guarantee advances from hotel operations or from owners through the proceeds of hotel sales, refinancing of debt or otherwise may also affect our ability to recycle and raise new capital. 17 table of contents our development activities expose us to project cost, completion and resale risks. we develop new hotel, timeshare, fractional ownership and personal residence ownership properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. our involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that (1) construction delays, cost overruns, or acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; (2) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for projects that are not pursued to completion; (3) conditions within capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or development of future properties; and (4) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to changes in mortgage rates, market absorption, or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices we anticipate. development activities which involve our co-investment with third parties may further increase completion risk or result in disputes which could increase project costs or impair project operations. partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business, and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures, or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. in the event of damage to or other potential losses involving properties that we own, manage or franchise, potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit both the scope of property and liability insurance coverage that we can obtain and our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods or terrorist acts, that may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify insuring against. as a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, we may carry insurance coverage that, in the event of a substantial loss, would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of our lost investment or that of hotel owners or in some cases could also result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose all, or a portion of, the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt or other financial obligations related to the property. risks relating to acts of god, contagious disease, terrorist activity and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters and the spread of contagious diseases, such as sars and avian flu, in locations where we own, manage or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers can cause a decline in the level of business and leisure travel and reduce the demand for lodging. wars (including the potential for war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), political unrest and other forms of civil strife and geopolitical uncertainty can have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms, timeshare units and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we are able to obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our revenues. an increase in the use of third-party internet reservation services could adversely impact our revenues . some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries, such as travelocity.com &reg; , expedia.com &reg; and priceline.com &reg; , serving both the leisure and, increasingly, the corporate travel and group meeting sectors. while marriott look no further &reg; best rate guarantee has greatly reduced the ability of these internet travel intermediaries to undercut the published rates of marriott hotels, these internet travel intermediaries continue their attempts to commoditize hotel rooms by aggressively marketing to price-sensitive travelers and corporate accounts and increasing the importance of general indicators of quality (such as three-star downtown hotel ) at the expense of brand identification. these agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their travel services rather than to our lodging brands. although we expect to continue to maintain and even increase the strength of our brands in the online marketplace, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our business and profitability may be harmed. 18 table of contents changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. our timeshare segment, and to a lesser extent our other lodging segments, rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing and mass mailings. recent initiatives, such as the national do not call registry and various state laws regarding marketing and solicitation, including anti-spam legislation, have created some concern about the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing and mass mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of timeshare units and other products. we also obtain lists of potential customers from travel service providers with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly. if the acquisition of these lists were outlawed or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. operating risks at our synthetic fuel operations could reduce the tax benefits generated by those facilities. the company owns an interest in four synthetic fuel production facilities. the internal revenue code provides tax credits for the production and sale of synthetic fuels produced from coal through 2007. although our synthetic fuel facilities incur significant losses, those losses are more than offset by the tax credits generated, which reduce our income tax expense. problems related to supply, production and demand at any of the synthetic fuel facilities, the power plants and other end users that buy synthetic fuel from the facilities, or the coal mines from which the facilities buy coal could diminish the productivity of our synthetic fuel operations and adversely impact the ability of those operations to generate tax credits. high oil prices in 2006 and beyond could reduce or eliminate the tax credits generated by our synthetic fuel facilities. the tax credits available under the internal revenue code for the production and sale of synthetic fuel in any given year are phased out if the reference price of a barrel of oil for that year falls within a specified price range. the reference price of a barrel of oil is an estimate of the annual average wellhead price per barrel of domestic crude oil and is determined for each calendar year by the secretary of the treasury by april 1 of the following year. in 2003 and 2004, the reference price was approximately equal to 89 percent of the average price in those years of the benchmark nymex futures contract for a barrel of light, sweet crude oil. the price range within which the tax credit is phased out was set in 1980 and is adjusted annually for inflation. in 2004, the phase-out range was $51.35 to $64.47. because the reference price for a barrel of oil for 2004 was below that range, at $36.75, there was no reduction of the tax credits available for synthetic fuel produced and sold in 2004. assuming a 2 percent inflation adjustment factor for 2005 and assuming that the ratio of the reference price to the average wellhead price of the benchmark nymex futures contract remains approximately the same in 2005 as it was in 2004, we currently estimate that, because the average nymex price for january through december 2005 was approximately $56.71, there was no reduction of the tax credits available for synthetic fuel produced and sold in 2005. assuming a 2 percent inflation adjustment factor for each of 2005 and 2006 and assuming that the ratio of the reference price to the average price of the benchmark nymex futures contract remains the same in 2006 as it was in 2004, we currently estimate that the tax credits available for production and sale of synthetic fuel in 2006 would begin to be phased out if the average price of the benchmark nymex futures contract in 2006 exceeds approximately $60 and would be fully phased out if the average price of the benchmark nymex futures contract in 2006 exceeds approximately $75. the average price of the benchmark nymex futures contract for 2006, through february 16, 2006 was $64.36. as a result of high oil prices in the first several weeks of 2006, the synthetic fuel operation elected to suspend production of synthetic fuel in mid-january 2006. on february 17, 2006, we restarted production and have taken steps to minimize operating losses that could occur if more than a majority of tax credits are phased out in 2006 as a result of high oil prices. we will continue to monitor the situation, and if circumstances warrant, we may again suspend production in the future. we cannot predict with any accuracy the future price of a barrel of oil. if the reference price of a barrel of oil in 2006 or 2007 exceeds the applicable phase-out threshold for those years, the tax credits generated by our synthetic fuel facilities in those years could be reduced or eliminated, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates or how such exposure is managed in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable, our residual interests retained in connection with the sale of timeshare segment notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable. changes in interest rates also impact our floating-rate long-term debt and the fair-value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in equity prices from our investments in common stock, which have a carrying value of $53 million at year-end 2005 and are accounted for as available-for-sale securities under fas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. we use derivative instruments as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. at year-end 2005 we were party to the following derivative instruments: an interest rate swap agreement under which we receive a floating-rate of interest and pay a fixed-rate of interest. the swap modifies our interest rate exposure by effectively converting a note receivable with a fixed rate to a floating rate. the aggregate notional amount of the swap is $92 million and it matures in 2010. six outstanding interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk associated with the residual interests we retain in conjunction with our timeshare segment note sales. historically, we were required by purchasers and/or rating agencies to utilize interest rate swaps to protect the excess spread within our sold note pools. the aggregate notional amount of the swaps is $380 million, and they expire through 2022. forward foreign exchange and option contracts to hedge the potential volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with variations in foreign exchange rates during 2005. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the contracts is approximately $27 million, and they expire throughout 2006. forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exposure related to certain monetary assets. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the forward contracts is $544 million at year-end 2005, and they expire throughout 2006. forward foreign exchange contracts to manage currency exchange rate volatility associated with certain investments in foreign operations. the contracts have a dollar notional equivalent of $229 million at year-end 2005, and they expire throughout 2006. 53 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value of our derivatives and other financial instruments as of year-end 2005: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets - maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. timeshare segment notes receivable $ 33 $ 42 $ 37 $ 31 $ 29 $ 172 $ 344 $ 344 average interest rate 12.76 % fixed-rate notes receivable $ 10 $ 21 $ 20 $ 2 $ 82 $ 29 $ 164 $ 166 average interest rate 10.38 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 5 $ 59 $ 20 $ 1 $ 7 $ 77 $ 169 $ 169 average interest rate 7.56 % residual interests $ 71 $ 47 $ 30 $ 18 $ 12 $ 18 $ 196 $ 196 average interest rate 8.56 % liabilities - maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (51 ) $ (11 ) $ (102 ) $ (88 ) $ (12 ) $ (903 ) $ (1,167 ) $ (1,214 ) average interest rate 6.04 % floating-rate debt $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ (499 ) $ (500 ) $ (500 ) average interest rate 4.211 % note: we classify commercial paper as long-term debt based on our ability and intent to refinance it on a long-term basis. derivatives - maturities represent notional amounts, fair values represent assets (liabilities). interest rate swaps: fixed to variable $ $ $ $ $ 65 $ 301 $ 7 $ 7 average pay rate 4.35 % average receive rate 5.03 % variable to fixed $ $ $ $ $ 43 $ 64 $ (1 ) $ (1 ) average pay rate 5.39 % average receive rate 5.08 % forward foreign exchange contracts: fixed (euro) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 375 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 1.188 fixed (gpb) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 347 $ $ $ $ $ $ (2 ) $ (2 ) average exchange rate 1.73 fixed (hkd) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 43 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.13 fixed (mxn) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 6 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.09 fixed (czk) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 2 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.04 fixed (jpy) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 2 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.01 fixed (krw) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 3 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.001 fixed (cad) to fixed ($u.s.) $ 22 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.86 54 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors, the tax credits available under section 45k of the irc for the production and sale of synthetic fuel in any given year are phased out if oil prices in that year are above certain thresholds. as a result of high oil prices in the first several weeks of 2006, we elected to suspend production of synthetic fuel in mid-january 2006. on february 17, 2006, we restarted production and entered into hedge agreements to minimize operating losses that could occur from that date through march 31, 2006, if more than a majority of the tax credits were phased out in 2006 as a result of high oil prices. early in the 2006 second quarter, with oil prices again averaging well above the starting point of the projected 2006 phase-out range for the first few months of the year, we suspended all production at our synthetic fuel facilities in order to minimize operating losses that could occur if more than a majority of the tax credits were phased out in 2006. we restarted production early in the 2006 fourth quarter at all four of the synthetic fuel production facilities and entered into hedge agreements to minimize operating losses that could occur if more than a majority of the tax credits were phased out in 2006. however, as noted earlier in this section, at year-end the mine adjacent to our alabama production facility was again closed by our feedstock supplier, and we did not anticipate operating the facility again at this location. as a result of new information received in 2007, we may attempt to restart the alabama facility in the future or move the processing equipment to another location. late in 2006 and early in 2007, we entered into hedge agreements to minimize operating losses that could occur if more than a majority of the tax credits are phased out in 2007. we will continue to monitor the situation, and if circumstances warrant, we may again elect to suspend production at all of our synthetic fuel facilities in the future. because the tax credits under section 45k of the irc are only available for the production and sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal through 2007, we expect to permanently shut down the facilities and cease production of synthetic fuel at the end of 2007. the book value of the synthetic fuel facilities was $5 million at year-end 2006. under the site leases for the facilities, we are required to restore the leased premises to substantially the condition the premises were in when the leases were executed. this restoration may include the dismantling and sale or disposal of improvements we have constructed on the premises, as well as site restoration and other related tasks. 14 table of contents we expect that the costs associated with shutting down the synthetic fuel facilities and completing the restoration of the project sites will not be material. our investment we acquired our initial interest in safe i and safe ii from pacificorp financial services ( pacificorp ) in october 2001 for $46 million in cash, and we began operating the facilities in the first quarter of 2002. we also make annual payments to pacificorp based on the amount of tax credits produced, up to a certain threshold. on june 21, 2003, we sold an approximately 50 percent ownership interest in both safe i and safe ii. we received cash and promissory notes totaling $25 million at closing, and were entitled to receive additional proceeds based on the actual amount of tax credits allocated to the purchaser. as a result of a put option associated with the june 21, 2003, sale of a 50 percent ownership interest, we consolidated the two synthetic fuel joint ventures from that date through november 6, 2003. effective november 7, 2003, because the put option was voided, we began accounting for the synthetic fuel joint ventures using the equity method of accounting. beginning march 26, 2004, as a result of adopting fin 46(r), consolidation of variable interest entities, we again consolidated the synthetic fuel joint ventures, and we reflected our partner share of the operating losses as minority interest. on october 6, 2004, we entered into amendment agreements with our synthetic fuel partner that resulted in a shift in the allocation of tax credits between us. our partner increased its allocation of tax credits generated by the safe i synthetic fuel facility from approximately 50 percent to 90 percent through march 31, 2005, and paid a higher price per tax credit to us for that additional share of tax credits. effective april 1, 2005, our partner share of the tax credits from safe i returned to approximately 50 percent. also on october 6, 2004, our partner reduced its allocation of tax credits generated by the three safe ii synthetic fuel facilities from approximately 50 percent to roughly 8 percent through december 31, 2004 and to 1 percent from january 1, 2005 through may 31, 2005. effective june 1, 2005, our partner share of the tax credits from the safe ii facilities returned to approximately 50 percent. our partner in safe ii, which owns three of our synthetic fuel plants, exercised its option to have its interest in safe ii redeemed, effective december 31, 2005, the first day of our 2006 first quarter. as a result, we now own all of the interests in the three safe ii production facilities. in consideration for the redeemed interest, we forgave the remaining outstanding promissory note balance of approximately $8 million related to our partner initial purchase of the interest in safe ii, and our partner was relieved of the obligation to make further earn-out payments with respect to safe ii for periods after december 31, 2005. on that date, we eliminated our partner minority interest in safe ii which was $7 million. as a result of the redemption of our partner interest in safe ii, for the period beginning january 1, 2006, we were allocated 100 percent of the operating losses associated with the facilities owned by safe ii, received 100 percent of the tax credits generated by those facilities, and made production decisions with respect to those facilities based on our 100 percent ownership. effective october 1, 2006, we purchased our partner interest in safe i, and, as a result, we now own all of the interests in the one safe i production facility. in consideration for the purchased interest, we paid our partner $150,000 in cash and, for periods after september 30, 2006, released our partner from its obligation to make remaining base note and earn-out payments related to the partner purchase of the interest in safe i. on september 30, 2006, we eliminated our partner minority interest in safe i, which was $2 million. as a result of the purchase of our partner interest in safe i, for the period beginning october 1, 2006, we were allocated 100 percent of the operating losses associated with the facility owned by safe i, received 100 percent of the tax credits generated by that facility, and made production decisions with respect to that facility based on our 100 percent ownership. in connection with the acquisition of our partner interest in safe i, we also assumed the obligation of our partner to make earn-out payments to our prior partner from whom it acquired the safe i interest in 2005. internal revenue service determinations on november 7, 2003, the united states internal revenue service ( irs ) issued private letter rulings to the synthetic fuel joint ventures confirming that the synthetic fuel produced by the facilities is a qualified fuel under the internal revenue code and that the resulting tax credit may be allocated among the members of the synthetic fuel joint ventures. in july 2004, irs field auditors issued a notice of proposed adjustment and later a summary report to pacificorp that included a challenge to the placed-in-service dates of the three safe ii synthetic fuel facilities. one of the conditions to qualify for tax credits is that the production facility must have been placed in service before july 1, 1998. on june 7, 2005, the irs national office issued a technical advice memorandum confirming that the three safe ii synthetic fuel facilities that were under irs review met the placed-in-service requirement of the internal revenue code. 15 table of contents employee relations at year-end 2006, we had approximately 150,600 employees. approximately 9,000 employees were represented by labor unions. we believe relations with our employees are positive. environmental compliance our compliance with laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and discharge of hazardous materials has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and we do not anticipate any material impact from such compliance in the future. internet address and company sec filings our internet address is www.marriott.com . on the investor relations portion of our web site, www.marriott.com/investor , we provide a link to our electronic sec filings, including our annual report on form 10-k, our quarterly reports on form 10-q, our current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to these reports. all such filings are available free of charge and are available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in this report (see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ) based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties described below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission. we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the company and its financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following. the lodging industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel and timeshare properties for customers. we generally operate in markets that contain numerous competitors. each of our hotel and timeshare brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value and efficiency of our lodging products and services from those offered by others. if we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, this could limit our operating margins, diminish our market share and reduce our earnings. we are subject to the range of operating risks common to the hotel, timeshare and corporate apartment industries. the profitability of the hotels, vacation timeshare resorts and corporate apartments that we operate or franchise may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: (1) the availability of and demand for hotel rooms, timeshare interval, fractional and whole ownership products and apartments; (2) international, national and regional economic and geopolitical conditions; (3) the impact of war, actual or threatened terrorist activity and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to war, terrorist activity or threats; (4) the desirability of particular locations and changes in travel patterns; (5) travelers fears of exposure to contagious diseases, such as avian flu and severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ); (6) the occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis and hurricanes; (7) taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, prices, interest rates, construction procedures and costs; (8) the availability and cost of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners to fund investments; (9) regional and national development of competing properties; (10) increases in wages and other labor costs, energy, healthcare, insurance, transportation and fuel, and other expenses central to the conduct of our business, including recent increases in energy costs; and (11) organized labor activities, which could cause the diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations, loss of group business, and/or increased labor costs. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce the demand, or the prices we are able to obtain for hotel rooms, timeshare units and corporate apartments, or could increase our costs and, therefore, reduce the profit of our lodging businesses. reduced demand for hotels could also give rise to losses under loans, guarantees and minority equity investments that we have made in connection with hotels that we manage. even where such factors do not reduce demand, our profit margins may suffer if we are unable to fully recover increased operating costs from our customers. 17 table of contents the uncertain pace and duration of the current growth environment in the lodging industry will continue to impact our financial results and growth. both the company and the lodging industry were hurt by several events occurring over the last several years, including the global economic downturn, the terrorist attacks on new york and washington in september 2001, the global outbreak of sars in 2003 and military action in iraq. although both the lodging and travel industries have now largely recovered from the depressed levels during those years, the duration, pace and full extent of the current growth environment remains unclear. accordingly, our financial results and growth could be harmed if that recovery stalls or is reversed. our lodging operations are subject to international, national and regional conditions. because we conduct our business on a national and international platform, our activities are susceptible to changes in the performance of regional and global economies. in recent years, our business was hurt by decreases in travel resulting from recent economic conditions, the military action in iraq and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism. our future economic performance is similarly subject to the uncertain economic environment in the united states and other regions, the unknown pace of business travel that results and the occurrence of any future incidents in the countries where we operate. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our present growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue, or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. we may have disputes with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may, in some instances, be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners but have not always been able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has in the past resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. we depend on capital to buy and maintain hotels, and we or hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both the company and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and maintenance of existing hotels depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we can exert little control. our ability to recover loan and guarantee advances from hotel operations or from owners through the proceeds of hotel sales, refinancing of debt or otherwise may also affect our ability to recycle and raise new capital. in addition, downgrades of our public debt ratings by standard &amp; poor s, moody investor service or similar companies could increase our cost of capital. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion and resale risks. we develop new hotel, timeshare interval, fractional ownership and whole ownership properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures with third parties. our involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) construction delays, cost overruns, or acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; (2) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for projects that are not pursued to completion; (3) conditions within capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or development of future properties; and (4) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to changes in mortgage rates, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices we anticipate. 18 table of contents development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may further increase completion risk or result in disputes that could increase project costs or impair project operations. partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties that are associated with our lodging and timeshare properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, through minority interests and/or licensing fees, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including luxury residences and condominiums under our the ritz-carlton and marriott brands. such projects pose additional risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging and timeshare businesses, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: decreases in residential real estate and vacation home prices or demand generally, which have historically been cyclical, could reduce our profits or even result in losses on residential sales, and could also result in significant carrying costs if the pace of sales is slower than we anticipate; increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims my be significant; and if the pace of sales is slower than we anticipate or sales prices are lower than projected, it may become more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands. damage to or other potential losses involving properties that we own, manage or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of insurance coverage that we can obtain and our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods or terrorist acts, may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against. as a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or that of hotel owners, or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt or other financial obligations related to the property. risks relating to acts of god, contagious disease, terrorist activity and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters and the spread of contagious diseases, such as avian flu and sars, in locations where we own, manage or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers can cause a decline in the level of business and leisure travel and reduce the demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife and other geopolitical uncertainty can have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms, timeshare units and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we are able to obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging and timeshare industries continue to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management and property management systems, our marriott rewards program, and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis. if we are unable to do so as quickly as our competitors, or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. 19 table of contents an increase in the use of third-party internet reservation services could adversely impact our revenues . some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries, such as travelocity.com, &reg; expedia.com &reg; and priceline.com, &reg; serving both the leisure and, increasingly, the corporate travel and group meeting sectors. while marriott look no further &reg; best rate guarantee has greatly reduced the ability of these internet travel intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, these intermediaries continue their attempts to commoditize hotel rooms by aggressively marketing to price-sensitive travelers and corporate accounts and increasing the importance of general indicators of quality (such as three-star downtown hotel ) at the expense of brand identification. these agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their travel services rather than to our lodging brands. although we expect to continue to maintain and even increase the strength of our brands in the online marketplace, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our business and profitability may be harmed. changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. our timeshare segment, and to a lesser extent our other lodging segments, rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the telemarketing sales rule, canspam act, and various u.s. state laws regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could result in concern about the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of timeshare units and other products. we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company marketing materials. if the acquisition of these lists were outlawed or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. operating risks at our synthetic fuel operations could reduce the tax benefits generated by those facilities. the company owns four synthetic fuel production facilities. the internal revenue code provides tax credits for the production and sale of synthetic fuels produced from coal through 2007. although our synthetic fuel facilities incur significant losses, those losses are more than offset by the tax credits generated, which reduce our income tax expense. problems related to supply, production and demand at any of the synthetic fuel facilities, the power plants and other end users that buy synthetic fuel from the facilities, the suppliers of the treatment agent or the coal mines from which the facilities buy coal could diminish the productivity of our synthetic fuel operations and adversely impact the ability of those operations to generate tax credits. high oil prices in 2007 could reduce or eliminate the tax credits generated by our synthetic fuel facilities. the tax credits available under the internal revenue code for the production and sale of synthetic fuel in any given year are phased out if the reference price of a barrel of oil for that year falls within a specified price range. the reference price of a barrel of oil is an estimate of the annual average wellhead price per barrel of domestic crude oil and is determined for each calendar year by the secretary of the treasury by april 1 of the following year. in 2004 and 2005, the reference price was approximately equal to 89 percent of the average price in those years of the benchmark nymex futures contract for a barrel of light, sweet crude oil. the price range within which the tax credit is phased out was set in 1980 and is adjusted annually for inflation. in 2005, the phase-out range was $53.20 to $66.79. because the reference price for a barrel of oil for 2005 was below that range, at $50.26, there was no reduction of the tax credits available for synthetic fuel produced and sold in 2005. assuming a 2 percent inflation adjustment factor for 2006 and assuming that the ratio of the reference price to the average price of the benchmark nymex futures contract remains approximately the same in 2006 as it was in 2005 we currently estimate that there was a 39 percent reduction of the tax credits available for synthetic fuel produced and sold in 2006. assuming a 2 percent inflation adjustment factor for each of 2006 and 2007 and assuming the ratio of the reference price to the average price of the benchmark nymex futures contract remains the same in 2007 as it was in 2005, we currently estimate that the tax credits available for the production and sale of synthetic fuel in 2007 would begin to be phased out if the average price of the benchmark nymex futures contract in 2007 exceeds approximately $62.19 and would be fully phased out if the average price of the benchmark nymex futures contract in 2007 exceeds approximately $78.08. the average price of the benchmark nymex futures contract for 2007, through february 9, 2007, was approximately $55.49. we cannot predict with any accuracy the future price of a barrel of oil. if the reference price of a barrel of oil in 2007 exceeds the applicable phase-out threshold, the tax credits generated by our synthetic fuel facilities could be reduced or eliminated, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. late in 2006 and early in 2007, we entered into hedging agreements to minimize operating losses that could occur if more than a majority of the tax credits are phased out in 2007. 20 table of contents our effective tax rate is likely to increase significantly after the synthetic fuel tax credit program expires at the end of 2007. tax credits contributed by our synthetic fuel operations have significantly reduced our effective tax rate during the last several years. because that program ends with 2007 synthetic fuel production, our facilities will not be able to generate credits in future years. as a result, our future effective tax rate is likely to increase significantly, thereby reducing our after-tax profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and debt and equity prices, and for our synthetic fuel business, oil prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates or how such exposure is managed in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable, our residual interests retained in connection with the sale of timeshare segment notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable. changes in interest rates also impact our floating-rate long-term debt and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt and equity prices from our investments in debt securities and common stock, which have a carrying value of $107 million at year-end 2006 and are accounted for as available-for-sale securities under fas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. we use derivative instruments as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. at year-end 2006 we were party to the following derivative instruments: an interest rate swap agreement under which we receive a floating rate of interest and pay a fixed rate of interest. the swap modifies our interest rate exposure by effectively converting a note receivable with a fixed rate to a floating rate. the aggregate notional amount of the swap was $92 million and it matures in 2010. four outstanding interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk associated with the residual interests we retain in conjunction with our timeshare note sales. historically, we were required by purchasers and/or rating agencies to utilize interest rate swaps to protect the excess spread within our sold note pools. the aggregate notional amount of the swaps was $209 million, and they expire through 2022. option contracts to hedge the potential volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with variations in foreign exchange rates during 2007. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the contracts was approximately $47 million, and they expire throughout 2007. forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exposure related to certain monetary assets. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the forward contracts was $217 million and they expire throughout 2007. oil price hedges to manage the volatility associated with oil prices and the uncertainty surrounding the potential phase-out of tax credits in 2007. the hedges cover 5 million barrels of oil and expire on december 31, 2007. forward foreign exchange contracts to manage currency exchange rate volatility associated with certain investments in foreign operations. the contracts had a dollar notional equivalent of $43 million and they expire throughout 2007. 59 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value of our derivatives and other financial instruments as of year-end 2006: ($ in millions) maturities by period 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets- maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. timeshare segment notes receivable $ 70 $ 40 $ 35 $ 30 $ 30 $ 181 $ 386 $ 386 average interest rate 12.35 % fixed-rate notes receivable $ 13 $ 6 $ 2 $ 83 $ 3 $ 26 $ 133 $ 136 average interest rate 10.94 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 20 $ 19 $ 3 $ 7 $ 36 $ 59 $ 144 $ 145 average interest rate 7.99 % residual interests $ 84 $ 50 $ 33 $ 21 $ 13 $ 20 $ 221 $ 221 average interest rate 9.22 % liabilities- maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (11 ) $ (103 ) $ (89 ) $ (13 ) $ (14 ) $ (1,243 ) $ (1,473 ) $ (1,504 ) average interest rate 6.07 % floating-rate debt $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ (315 ) $ (316 ) $ (316 ) average interest rate 4.80 % note: we classify commercial paper as long-term debt based on our ability and intent to refinance it on a long-term basis. derivatives- maturities represent notional amounts, fair values represent assets (liabilities). interest rate swaps: fixed to variable $ $ $ $ 93 $ $ 161 $ 8 $ 8 average pay rate 3.90 % average receive rate 5.29 % variable to fixed $ $ $ $ $ $ 47 $ (2 ) $ (2 ) average pay rate 5.88 % average receive rate 4.01 % forward foreign exchange contracts: fixed (eur) to fixed (usd) $ 162 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 1.32 fixed (gbp) to fixed (usd) $ 75 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 1.96 fixed (hkd) to fixed (usd) $ 49 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.13 fixed (mxn) to fixed (usd) $ 7 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.09 fixed (aud) to fixed (usd) $ 3 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.79 fixed (cad) to fixed (usd) $ 11 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.86 oil price hedges: contract amount $ 7 $ $ $ $ $ $ 5 $ 5 (weighted average price per gallon is $1.37) (contract volume is 5 million barrels) 60 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties described below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the company and its financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: lodging industry risks the lodging industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel and timeshare properties for customers. we generally operate in markets that contain numerous competitors. each of our hotel and timeshare brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services from those offered by others. if we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, this could limit our operating margins, diminish our market share, and reduce our earnings. we are subject to the range of operating risks common to the hotel, timeshare, and corporate apartment industries. the profitability of the hotels, vacation timeshare resorts, and corporate apartments that we operate or franchise may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: (1) the availability of and demand for hotel rooms, timeshare interval, fractional ownership and residential products, and apartments; (2) international, national, and regional economic and geopolitical conditions; (3) the impact of war, actual or threatened terrorist activity and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to war, terrorist activity or threats; (4) the desirability of particular locations and changes in travel patterns; (5) travelers fears of exposure to contagious diseases, such as avian flu and severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ); (6) the occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, and hurricanes; (7) taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, prices, interest rates, construction procedures, and costs; (8) the availability and cost of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners to fund investments; (9) regional and national development of competing properties; (10) increases in wages and other labor costs, energy, healthcare, insurance, transportation and fuel, and other expenses central to the conduct of our business, including recent increases in energy costs; and (11) organized labor activities, which could cause the diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations, loss of group business, and/or increased labor costs. 15 table of contents any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce the demand or the prices we are able to obtain for hotel rooms, timeshare units, residential units, and corporate apartments or could increase our costs and therefore reduce the profit of our lodging businesses. reduced demand for hotels could also give rise to losses under loans, guarantees, and minority equity investments that we have made in connection with hotels that we manage. even where such factors do not reduce demand, our profit margins may suffer if we are unable to fully recover increased operating costs from our customers. the uncertain environment in the lodging industry will continue to impact our financial results and growth. both the company and the lodging industry were hurt by several events occurring over the last several years, including the global economic downturn, the terrorist attacks on new york and washington in september 2001, the global outbreak of sars in 2003, and military action in iraq. although by 2007 both the lodging and travel industries had recovered from the depressed levels during those years, recent concerns over the possibility of an economic slowdown have left it unclear whether the recent growth environment will continue. accordingly, our financial results and growth could be harmed if the industry recovery stalls or is reversed. operational risks our new branded hotel products may not be successful. we recently announced two new branded hotel products, nickelodeon resorts by marriott &reg; and edition, and may launch additional branded hotel products in the future. we cannot assure that these brands will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public, that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing the brands, or that the brands will be successful. in addition, each of these new brands involves cooperation and/or consultation with a third party, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing and brand standards. disagreements between us and these third parties regarding areas of consultation or shared control could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair marriott ability to take actions it believes to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. our lodging operations are subject to international, national, and regional conditions. because we conduct our business on a national and international platform, our activities are susceptible to changes in the performance of regional and global economies. in recent years, our business was hurt by decreases in travel resulting from recent economic conditions, the military action in iraq, and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism. our future economic performance is similarly subject to the uncertain economic environment in the united states and other regions, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and the occurrence of any future incidents in the countries where we operate. risks relating to natural disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters, and the spread of contagious diseases, such as avian flu and sars, in locations where we own, manage or franchise significant properties, and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers can cause a decline in the level of business and leisure travel and reduce the demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, and other geopolitical uncertainty can have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms, timeshare units, and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we are able to obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. we may have disputes with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements in some instances. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners but have not always been able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has in the past resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. damage to or other potential losses involving properties that we own, manage or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of insurance coverage that we can obtain and our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or that of hotel owners or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations related to the property. 16 table of contents development and financing risks our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our present growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. we depend on capital to buy and maintain hotels, and hotel owners or we may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both the company and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and maintenance of existing hotels depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we can exert little control. our ability to recover loan and guarantee advances from hotel operations or from owners through the proceeds of hotel sales, refinancing of debt or otherwise may also affect our ability to recycle and raise new capital. in addition, downgrades of our public debt ratings by standard &amp; poor s, moody investor service or similar companies could increase our cost of capital. further volatility in the credit markets could adversely impact our ability to sell the loans that our timeshare business generates. our timeshare business provides financing to purchasers of our timeshare and fractional properties, and we periodically sell interests in those loans in the securities markets. while we do not believe that recent volatility in the credit markets will prevent us from continuing to sell those notes on attractive terms , further volatility could cause future sale terms to be materially less favorable to us or prevent us from selling our timeshare notes entirely, which in turn would reduce future gains and could result in increased borrowings to provide capital to replace anticipated proceeds from such sales. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we develop new hotel, timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. our involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) construction delays, cost overruns, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; (2) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for projects that are not pursued to completion; (3) conditions within capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or development of future properties; and (4) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to changes in mortgage rates, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate. development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties that are associated with our lodging and timeshare properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, through minority interests and/or licensing fees, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with 17 table of contents our brands, including luxury residences, and condominiums under our ritz-carlton and marriott brands. such projects pose additional risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging and timeshare businesses, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: decreases in residential real estate and vacation home prices or demand generally, which have historically been cyclical, could reduce our profits or even result in losses on residential sales, result in significant carrying costs if the pace of sales is slower than we anticipate, or make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging and timeshare industries continue to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management and property management systems, our marriott rewards program, and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis. if we are unable to do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet reservation services could adversely impact our revenues . some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries, such as expedia.com &reg; , travelocity.com &reg; , and priceline.com &reg; , serving both the leisure and, increasingly, the corporate travel and group meeting sectors. while marriott look no further &reg; best rate guarantee has greatly reduced the ability of these internet travel intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, these intermediaries continue their attempts to commoditize hotel rooms by aggressively marketing to price-sensitive travelers and corporate accounts and increasing the importance of general indicators of quality (such as three-star downtown hotel ) at the expense of brand identification. these agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their travel services rather than to our lodging brands. although we expect to continue to maintain and even increase the strength of our brands in the online marketplace, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our business and profitability may be harmed. failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers as they are entered into, processed by, summarized by, and reported by our various information systems. we also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. the integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. if that data is not accurate or complete we could make faulty decisions. our customers also have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, both in the u.s. and other international jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines and litigation. changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. our timeshare segment, and to a lesser extent our other lodging segments, rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the telemarketing sales rule, canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws, regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of timeshare units and other products. we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company marketing materials. if the acquisition of these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. 18 table of contents other risks if we cannot attract and retain talented associates our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we are not able to recruit, train, develop and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a stockholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the stockholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes in connection with mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder rights plan to replace the existing stockholder rights plan that will expire in march 2008 and which we do not presently plan to renew. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and debt and equity prices, and with respect to our synthetic fuel business, changes in oil prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates or how such exposure is managed in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable, our residual interests retained in connection with the sale of timeshare segment notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable. changes in interest rates also impact our floating-rate long-term debt and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt and equity prices from our investments in debt securities and common stock, which have a carrying value of $55 million at year-end 2007, which we account for as available-for-sale securities under fas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. we use derivative instruments as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. at year-end 2007, we were party to the following derivative instruments: an interest rate swap agreement under which we receive a floating rate of interest and pay a fixed rate of interest. the swap modifies our interest rate exposure by effectively converting a note receivable with a fixed rate to a floating rate. the aggregate notional amount of the swap was $92 million and it matures in 2010. four outstanding interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk associated with the residual interests we retain in conjunction with our timeshare note sales. historically, we have been required by purchasers and/or rating agencies to utilize interest rate swaps to protect the excess spread within our sold-note pools. the aggregate notional amount of the swaps was $157 million, and they expire through 2022. option contracts to hedge the potential volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with variations in foreign exchange rates during 2008. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the contracts was approximately $86 million, and they expire throughout 2008. forward contracts to hedge forecasted transactions for contracts denominated in foreign currencies. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts was approximately $58 million, and they expire in 2008 and 2010. forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exposure related to certain monetary assets. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the forward contracts was $133 million at year-end 2007. oil price hedges to manage the volatility associated with oil prices and the uncertainty surrounding the potential phase-out of tax credits in 2007. the hedges cover 19 million barrels of oil and expired on december 31, 2007. 58 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value of our derivatives and other financial instruments as of year-end 2007: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets- maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. timeshare segment notes receivable $ 68 $ 47 $ 42 $ 38 $ 38 $ 243 $ 476 $ 476 average interest rate 12.70 % fixed-rate notes receivable $ 17 $ 4 $ 88 $ $ $ 25 $ 134 $ 138 average interest rate 12.05 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 4 $ $ 4 $ 20 $ 19 $ 32 $ 79 $ 79 average interest rate 7.04 % residual interests $ 81 $ 55 $ 36 $ 24 $ 16 $ 26 $ 238 $ 238 average interest rate 9.02 % liabilities- maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (137 ) $ (113 ) $ (47 ) $ (14 ) $ (354 ) $ (1,639 ) $ (2,304 ) $ (2,338 ) average interest rate 6.12 % floating-rate debt $ (34 ) $ $ $ $ $ (585 ) $ (619 ) $ (619 ) average interest rate 5.53 % note: we classify commercial paper as long-term debt based on our ability and intent to refinance it on a long-term basis. derivatives- maturities represent notional amounts; fair values represent assets (liabilities). interest rate swaps: fixed to variable $ $ $ 93 $ $ 238 $ 123 $ (7 ) $ (7 ) average pay rate 4.02 % average receive rate 3.64 % variable to fixed $ $ $ $ $ $ 34 $ $ average pay rate 5.23 % average receive rate 4.01 % forward foreign exchange contracts : fixed (eur) to fixed (usd) $ 69 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 1.47 fixed (gbp) to fixed (usd) $ 46 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 2.00 fixed (hkd) to fixed (usd) $ 38 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.13 fixed (mxn) to fixed (usd) $ 13 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.09 fixed (jpy) to fixed (usd) $ 3 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.01 fixed (cad) to fixed (usd) $ 43 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 1.02 fixed (thb) to fixed (usd) $ 39 $ $ 25 $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.03 oil price hedges : contract amount $ 14 $ $ $ $ $ $ 4 $ 4 (contract volume is 19 million barrels) 59 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties described below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the company and its financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: lodging industry risks the lodging industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel and timeshare properties for customers. we generally operate in markets that contain numerous competitors. each of our hotel and timeshare brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services from those offered by others. if we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, this could limit our operating margins, diminish our market share, and reduce our earnings. we are subject to the range of operating risks common to the hotel, timeshare, and corporate apartment industries. the profitability of the hotels, vacation timeshare resorts, and corporate apartments that we operate or franchise may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: (1) the availability of and demand for hotel rooms, timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential products, and apartments; (2) international, national, and regional economic and geopolitical conditions; (3) the impact of war, actual or threatened terrorist activity and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to war, terrorist activity or threats; (4) the desirability of particular locations and changes in travel patterns; (5) travelers fears of exposure to contagious diseases, such as avian flu and severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ); (6) the occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, and hurricanes; (7) taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, prices, interest rates, construction procedures, and costs; (8) the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, franchising, timeshare, lending, privacy, marketing and sales, licensing, labor, employment, immigration and environmental laws, and regulations applicable under the office of foreign asset control and the foreign corrupt practices act; (9) the availability and cost of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners to fund investments; (10) regional and national development of competing properties; 16 table of contents (11) increases in wages and other labor costs, energy, healthcare, insurance, transportation and fuel, and other expenses central to the conduct of our business or the cost of travel for our customers, including recent increases in energy costs and any resulting increase in travel costs or decrease in airline capacity; (12) organized labor activities, which could cause the diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations, loss of group business, and/or increased labor costs; and (13) foreign currency exchange fluctuations. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce the demand or the prices our hotels are able to obtain for hotel rooms, timeshare units, residential units, and corporate apartments or could increase our costs and therefore reduce the profit of our lodging businesses. reduced demand for hotels could also give rise to losses under loans, guarantees, and minority equity investments that we have made in connection with hotels that we manage. even where such factors do not reduce demand, property-level profit margins may suffer if we are unable to fully recover increased operating costs from our guests. similarly, our fee revenue could be impacted by weak property-level revenue or profitability. our hotel management and franchise agreements may also be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which the company fails or elects not to cure. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. the current general economic recession and the slowdown in the lodging and timeshare industries will continue to impact our financial results and growth. the present economic recession and the uncertainty over its depth and duration will continue to have a negative impact on the lodging and timeshare industries. there is now general consensus among economists that the economies of the u.s., europe and much of the rest of the world are now in a recession, and we are experiencing reduced demand for our hotel rooms and timeshare products. accordingly, our financial results have been impacted by the economic slowdown and we expect that our future financial results and growth will be further harmed while the recession continues. operational risks our lodging operations are subject to international, national, and regional conditions. because we conduct our business on a national and international platform, our activities are susceptible to changes in the performance of regional and global economies. in recent years, our business has been hurt by decreases in travel resulting from recent economic conditions, the military action in iraq, and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism. our future economic performance is similarly subject to the economic environment in the united states and other regions, which has become increasingly uncertain with recent failures and near failures of a number of large financial service companies, the current worldwide recession, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and the occurrence of any future incidents in the countries where we operate. new branded hotel products that we launch in the future may not be successful. we may in the future launch additional branded hotel products. we cannot assure that these brands will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public, that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing the brands, or that the brands will be successful. in addition, each of these new brands involves cooperation and/or consultation with a third party, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties regarding areas of consultation or shared control could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. risks relating to natural disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, and other natural disasters and the spread of contagious diseases, such as avian flu and sars, in locations where we own, manage or franchise significant properties, and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers can cause a decline in the level of business and leisure travel and reduce the demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, and other geopolitical uncertainty can have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms, timeshare units, and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we are able to obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. we may have disputes with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both 17 table of contents management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements in some instances. such disagreements may be more likely as hotel returns are depressed as a result of the current economic recession. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners but have not always been able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has in the past resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. damage to, or other potential losses involving, properties that we own, manage or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of insurance coverage that we can obtain and our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or that of hotel owners or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations related to the property. development and financing risks while w e are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, we depend on capital to buy, develop and improve hotels and to develop timeshare properties, and we or our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both the company and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we can exert little control. events over the past several months, including recent failures and near failures of a number of large financial service companies and the contraction of available liquidity and leverage have impaired the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. as a result, many current and prospective hotel owners are finding hotel financing on commercially viable terms to be difficult or impossible to obtain. in addition, the bankruptcy of lehman brothers and the financial condition of other lenders has prevented some projects that are in construction or development, including a few in which the company has minority equity investments, from drawing on existing financing commitments, and replacement financing may not be available or may only be available on less favorable terms. delays, increased costs and other impediments to restructuring such projects will reduce our ability to realize fees, recover loans and guarantee advances, or realize equity investments from such projects. our ability to recover loan and guarantee advances from hotel operations or from owners through the proceeds of hotel sales, refinancing of debt or otherwise may also affect our ability to recycle and raise new capital. in addition, any future downgrade of our credit ratings by standard &amp; poor s, moody investor service or other rating agencies could reduce our availability of capital and increase our cost of capital. continued or increased volatility in the credit markets will likely continue to impair our ability to sell the loans that our timeshare business generates. our timeshare business provides financing to purchasers of our timeshare and fractional properties, and we periodically sell interests in those loans in the securities markets. recent declines in the credit markets will likely continue to impair the timing and volume of the timeshare loans that we sell. market conditions during the first half of 2008 resulted in terms that were less favorable to us than they were historically, and further deterioration prevented a planned fourth quarter 2008 sale, may delay planned 2009 sales or sharply increase their cost to us until the markets stabilize, or prevent us from selling our timeshare notes entirely. although we expect to realize the economic value of our timeshare note portfolio even if future note sales are temporarily or indefinitely delayed, such delays in note sales could reduce or postpone future gains, cause us to reduce spending in order to maintain our leverage and return targets, and could also result in increased borrowing to provide capital to replace proceeds from such sales. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our present growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site 18 table of contents availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we develop new hotel, timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. our involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) recent and continued declines in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to increases in mortgage rates and/or decreases in mortgage availability, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate; (3) construction delays, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for projects that are not pursued to completion. development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. such disputes may also be more likely in the current difficult investment environment. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties that are associated with our lodging and timeshare properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, through minority interests and/or licensing fees, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including luxury residences, and condominiums under our ritz-carlton and marriott brands. such projects pose additional risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging and timeshare businesses, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: recent decreases in residential real estate, vacation home prices, and demand generally, will reduce our profits and could even result in losses on residential sales, increase our carrying costs due to a slower pace of sales than we anticipated, and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging and timeshare industries continue to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management and property management systems, our marriott rewards program, and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis. if we are unable to do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our revenues . some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries, such as expedia.com &reg; , travelocity.com &reg; , and orbitz.com &reg; , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although marriott look no further &reg; best rate guarantee has greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott 19 table of contents from internet search engines such as google &reg; and yahoo &reg; to steer customers toward their web sites (a practice currently being challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although marriott has successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries web sites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from marriott.com, or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers as they are entered into, processed by, summarized by, and reported by our various information systems and those of our service providers. we also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. the integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. if that data is inaccurate or incomplete we could make faulty decisions. our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, both in the united states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines and litigation. changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. our timeshare segment and, to a lesser extent, our other lodging segments, rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the telemarketing sales rule, canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws, regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of timeshare units and other products. we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers, and introduce them to our products could be impaired. other risks if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we are not able to recruit, train, develop and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a stockholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the stockholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes in connection with mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder rights plan to replace the stockholder rights plan that expired in march 2008. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and debt and equity prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates or how such exposure is managed in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable, our residual interests retained in connection with the sale of timeshare segment notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable. changes in interest rates also impact our floating-rate long-term debt and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt and equity prices from our investments in debt securities. we are also subject to risk from changes in equity prices from an investment in common stock, which has a carrying value of $10 million at year-end 2008, which we account for as available-for-sale securities under fas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. we use derivative instruments as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. at year-end 2008, we were party to the following derivative instruments: an interest rate swap agreement under which we receive a floating rate of interest and pay a fixed rate of interest. the swap modifies our interest rate exposure by effectively converting a note receivable with a fixed rate to a floating rate. the aggregate notional amount of the swap was $92 million and it matures in 2010. four outstanding interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk associated with the residual interests we retain in conjunction with our timeshare note sales. historically, we have been required by purchasers and/or rating agencies to utilize interest rate swaps to protect the excess spread within our sold note pools. the aggregate notional amount of the swaps was $111 million, and they expire through 2022. two interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk associated with forecasted timeshare note sales. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts was $149 million at year-end 2008, and they expire in 2012. forward contracts to hedge forecasted transactions for contracts and fees denominated in foreign currencies. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts was approximately $89 million, and they expire in 2009 and 2010. forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exposure related to certain monetary assets. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the forward contracts was $190 million at year-end 2008 and they expire in 2009. forward foreign exchange contracts to manage currency exchange rate volatility associated with certain investments in foreign operations. the contracts offset the gains and losses associated with translation adjustments for various investments in foreign operations. the aggregate dollar equivalent of the notional amounts of the investments remaining at year-end 2008 was $15 million and they expire in 2009. 68 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value of our derivatives and other financial instruments as of year-end 2008: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets -maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. timeshare segment notes receivable $ 81 $ 62 $ 60 $ 58 $ 59 $ 368 $ 688 $ 688 average interest rate 12.71 % fixed-rate notes receivable $ 5 $ 92 $ $ $ $ 60 $ 157 $ 128 average interest rate 9.88 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 10 $ 2 $ 12 $ 25 $ $ 32 $ 81 $ 83 average interest rate 4.27 % residual interests $ 87 $ 52 $ 32 $ 20 $ 13 $ 17 $ 221 $ 221 average interest rate 16.8 % liabilities- maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (115 ) $ (66 ) $ (16 ) $ (352 ) $ (403 ) $ (1,136 ) $ (2,088 ) $ (1,751 ) average interest rate 5.79 % floating-rate debt $ $ $ $ (969 ) $ $ $ (969 ) $ (969 ) average interest rate 2.41 % derivatives- maturities represent notional amounts; fair values represent assets (liabilities). interest rate swaps: fixed to variable $ $ 93 $ $ 149 $ $ 88 $ (21 ) $ (21 ) average pay rate 4.17 % average receive rate 1.89 % variable to fixed $ $ $ $ $ $ 23 $ 1 $ 1 average pay rate 3.26 % average receive rate 4.01 % forward foreign exchange contracts: fixed (eur) to fixed (usd) $ 141 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1 $ 1 average exchange rate 1.41 fixed (gbp) to fixed (usd) $ 25 $ $ $ $ $ $ 3 $ 3 average exchange rate 1.44 fixed (hkd) to fixed (usd) $ 21 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.13 fixed (mxn) to fixed (usd) $ 15 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.07 fixed (jpy) to fixed (usd) $ 5 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average exchange rate 0.01 fixed (cad) to fixed (usd) $ 40 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2 $ 2 average exchange rate 0.82 fixed (thb) to fixed (usd) $ 6 $ 24 $ $ $ $ $ (2 ) $ (2 ) average exchange rate 0.03 69 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties described below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the company and its financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: lodging and timeshare industry risks our industries are highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel and timeshare properties for customers. we generally operate in markets that contain numerous competitors. each of our hotel and timeshare brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services from those offered by others. if we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, this could limit our operating margins, diminish our market share, and reduce our earnings. we are subject to the range of operating risks common to the hotel, timeshare, and corporate apartment industries. the profitability of the hotels, vacation timeshare resorts, and corporate apartments that we operate or franchise may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: (1) the availability of and demand for hotel rooms, timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential products, and apartments; (2) pricing strategies of our competitors; (3) international, national, and regional economic and geopolitical conditions; (4) the impact of war, actual or threatened terrorist activity and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to war, terrorist activity or threats; (5) the desirability of particular locations and changes in travel patterns; (6) travelers fears of exposure to contagious diseases, such as h1n1 flu, avian flu and severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ); (7) the occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, and hurricanes; (8) taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, prices, interest rates, construction procedures, and costs; (9) the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, those associated with franchising, timeshare, lending, privacy, marketing and sales, licensing, labor, employment, immigration, the environment, and the u.s. department of the treasury office of foreign asset control and the foreign corrupt practices act; 16 table of contents (10) the availability and cost of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners to fund investments; (11) regional and national development of competing properties; (12) increases in wages and other labor costs, energy, healthcare, insurance, transportation and fuel, and other expenses central to the conduct of our business or the cost of travel for our customers, including recent increases in energy costs and any resulting increase in travel costs or decrease in airline capacity; (13) organized labor activities, which could cause the diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations, loss of group business, and/or increased labor costs; (14) foreign currency exchange fluctuations; and (15) trademark or intellectual property infringement. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce the demand or the prices our hotels are able to obtain for hotel rooms, timeshare units, residential units, and corporate apartments or could increase our costs and therefore reduce the profit of our lodging businesses. reduced demand for hotels could also give rise to losses under loans, guarantees, and noncontrolling equity investments that we have made in connection with hotels that we manage. even where such factors do not reduce demand, property-level profit margins may suffer if we are unable to fully recover increased operating costs from our guests. similarly, our fee revenue could be impacted by weak property-level revenue or profitability. our hotel management and franchise agreements may also be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which the company fails or elects not to cure. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. current general economic conditions and the slowdown in the lodging and timeshare industries will continue to impact our financial results and growth. the present weak economic conditions in the united states, europe and much of the rest of the world and the uncertainty over the duration of that weakness and the prospects for recovery will continue to have a negative impact on the lodging and timeshare industries. as a result of current economic conditions, we continue to experience reduced demand for our hotel rooms and timeshare products. accordingly, our financial results have been impacted by the economic slowdown, and we expect that our future financial results and growth will be further harmed until a meaningful recovery is well under way. operational risks our lodging operations are subject to international, national, and regional conditions. because we conduct our business on a national and international platform, our activities are susceptible to changes in the performance of regional and global economies. in recent years, our business has been hurt by decreases in travel resulting from recent economic conditions, the military action in iraq, and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism. our future economic performance is similarly affected by the economic environment in the united states and other regions, which remains affected by the current worldwide economic weakness, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and the occurrence of any future incidents in the countries where we operate. the growing significance of our operations outside of the united states also makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently operate or franchise hotels and resorts in 68 countries, our operations outside the united states represented approximately 16 percent of our revenues in 2009, and we expect that the international share of our total revenues will increase in future years. as a result, we are increasingly exposed to a number of challenges and risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including those listed below, any of which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, or disrupt our business: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may impact our operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with u.s. laws that affect the activities of u.s. companies abroad; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax effective manner; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; and (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. 17 table of contents new branded hotel products that we launch in the future may not be successful. we may in the future launch additional branded hotel products. we cannot assure that our recently launched edition and the autograph collection brands or new hotel products we may launch in the future will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public, that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing the brands, or that the brands will be successful. in addition, some of these new brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with a third party, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties regarding areas of consultation or shared control could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. risks relating to natural disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, and other natural disasters and the spread of contagious diseases, such as h1n1 flu, avian flu, and sars, in locations where we own, manage or franchise significant properties, and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers can cause a decline in the level of business and leisure travel and reduce the demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, and other geopolitical uncertainty can have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms, timeshare units, and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we are able to obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. unresolved disputes with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements. such disagreements may be more likely as hotel returns are depressed as a result of current economic conditions. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners but are not always able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in a significant adverse judgment, settlement or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. damage to, or other potential losses involving, properties that we own, manage or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of insurance coverage that we can obtain and our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or that of hotel owners or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations related to the property. development and financing risks while w e are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, we depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels and to develop timeshare properties, and we or our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both the company and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we can exert little control. ongoing instability in the financial markets following the 2008 worldwide financial crisis and the contraction of available liquidity and leverage continue to constrain the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. as a result, while lenders have shown a willingness to work with borrowers to extend relief in the short to medium term, many current and prospective hotel owners are still finding new hotel financing on commercially viable terms to be challenging. our ability to recover loan and guarantee advances from hotel operations or from owners through the proceeds of hotel sales, refinancing of debt or otherwise may also affect our ability to recycle and raise new capital. in addition, any further downgrade of our credit ratings by standard &amp; poor s, moody investor service, fitch ratings, or other rating agencies could reduce our availability of capital or increase our cost of capital. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our present growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our 18 table of contents competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we develop new hotel, timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as demonstrated by the 2009 impairment charges associated with our timeshare business, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) continued weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to further decreases in demand for residential, fractional or interval ownership, increases in mortgage rates and/or decreases in mortgage availability, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for these projects that are not pursued to completion. development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. such disputes may also be more likely in the current difficult business environment. other risks associated with timeshare and residential properties disruption in the credit markets could impair our ability to sell the loans that our timeshare business generates. our timeshare business provides financing to purchasers of our timeshare and fractional properties, and we periodically sell interests in those loans in the securities markets. disruption in the credit markets in the second half of 2008 and much of 2009 impaired the timing and volume of the timeshare loans that we sell, as well as the financial terms of such sales. deteriorating market conditions resulted in the delay of a planned fourth quarter 2008 sale to the 2009 first quarter with terms that were less favorable to us than they had been historically and higher sales costs to us than we had originally anticipated. market conditions improved throughout 2009 and we successfully completed a sale in the fourth quarter of 2009 on terms that were substantially more favorable than the first quarter 2009 transaction. nonetheless, financial markets have not returned to pre-2008 conditions and another deterioration could delay future sales, sharply increase their cost to us, or prevent us from selling our timeshare notes entirely. delays in note sales or increases in sale costs could cause us to reduce spending in order to maintain our leverage and return targets, and could also result in increased borrowing to provide capital to replace proceeds from such sales. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties that are associated with our lodging and timeshare properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, through noncontrolling interests and/or licensing fees, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including luxury residences, and condominiums under our ritz-carlton and marriott brands. such projects pose additional risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging and timeshare businesses, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: recent decreases in residential real estate, vacation home prices, and demand generally will continue to reduce our profits and could result in losses on residential sales, increase our carrying costs due to a slower pace of sales than we anticipated, and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; 19 table of contents increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. purchase defaults on the loans our timeshare business generates could reduce our timeshare revenues and profits. we are also subject to the risk of default on the financing we provide to purchasers of our timeshare and fractional properties. purchaser defaults could force us to foreclose on the loan and reclaim ownership of the financed property, both for loans that we have not securitized and in our role as servicer for the loans we have sold in the securities markets. if we cannot resell foreclosed properties in a timely manner or at a price sufficient to repay the loans and our costs, we could incur losses, impairment charges on loans we have yet to securitize or our residual interest in loans that we have securitized. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging and timeshare industries continue to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management and property management systems, our marriott rewards program, and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis. if we are unable to do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our revenues. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com &reg; , travelocity.com &reg; , and orbitz.com &reg; , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although marriott look no further &reg; best rate guarantee has greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google &reg; , bing &reg; and yahoo &reg; to steer customers toward their websites (a practice currently being challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although marriott has successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from www.marriott.com , or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines, or lawsuits . our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers as they are entered into, processed by, summarized by, and reported by our various information systems and those of our service providers. we also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. the integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. if that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our customers and employees also have a high expectation that their personal information will be adequately protected by ourselves or our service providers, and the regulatory environment surrounding information, security and privacy is increasingly demanding, in both the united states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data by us or by a service provider could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, and litigation. changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the telemarketing sales rule, canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws, regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of timeshare units and other products. 20 table of contents we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers, and introduce them to our products could be impaired. other risks changes in tax and other laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and foreign laws, regulations and policies. in response to the recent economic crisis and the current recession, we anticipate that many of the jurisdictions in which we do business will review tax and other revenue raising laws, regulations and policies, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. in particular, u.s. and foreign governments may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that could have a significant impact on us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-u.s. operations or that could require costly changes to those operations or the way in which they are structured. for example, most u.s. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the united states is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than u.s. tax rates. if changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations were to significantly increase the tax rates on non-u.s. income, our effective tax rate could increase, our profits could be reduced, and if such increases were a result of our status as a u.s. company, could place us at a disadvantage to our non-u.s. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we are not able to recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a stockholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the stockholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes in connection with mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder rights plan to replace the stockholder rights plan that expired in march 2008. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and debt and equity prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates or how such exposure is managed in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable, our residual interests retained in connection with the sale of timeshare segment notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable. changes in interest rates also impact our floating-rate long-term debt and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt and equity prices from our investments in debt securities. we account for our investment as available-for-sale securities under the guidance for accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. at year-end 2009, our investment had a fair value of $18 million. we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in foreign operations hedges, fair value hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. at year-end 2009, our consolidated balance sheet included a $3 million asset and a $1 million liability for foreign exchange forwards, a $3 million liability related to a fair value interest rate swap and a $1 million liability for interest rate swaps not designated as hedging instruments. please see footnote no. 17, derivative instruments for additional information, including the risks associated with our derivative instruments, their impact on our consolidated financial statements, the notional amounts, and their maturity dates. 62 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2009 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets- maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. timeshare segment notes receivable $ 73 $ 48 $ 44 $ 40 $ 37 $ 182 $ 424 $ 440 average interest rate 12.20 % fixed-rate notes receivable $ 92 $ $ $ $ 2 $ 7 $ 101 $ 78 average interest rate 7.03 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 3 $ 10 $ 20 $ 3 $ $ 59 $ 95 $ 78 average interest rate 4.42 % residual interests $ 70 $ 44 $ 33 $ 25 $ 15 $ 27 $ 214 $ 214 average interest rate 16.10 % liabilities- maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (58 ) $ (7 ) $ (353 ) $ (404 ) $ (6 ) $ (1,011 ) $ (1,839 ) $ (1,919 ) average interest rate 5.87 % floating-rate debt $ $ $ (425 ) $ $ $ $ (425 ) $ (425 ) average interest rate 0.87 % 63 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties described below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the company and its financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: lodging and timeshare industry risks our industries are highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel and timeshare properties for customers. we generally operate in markets that contain numerous competitors. each of our hotel and timeshare brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services from those offered by others. if we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, this could limit our operating margins, diminish our market share, and reduce our earnings. we are subject to the range of operating risks common to the hotel, timeshare, and corporate apartment industries. the profitability of the hotels, vacation timeshare resorts, and corporate apartments that we operate or franchise may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: (1) the availability of and demand for hotel rooms, timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential products, and apartments; (2) pricing strategies of our competitors; (3) international, national, and regional economic and geopolitical conditions; (4) the impact of war, actual or threatened terrorist activity and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to war, terrorist activity or threats, and civil unrest; (5) the desirability of particular locations and changes in travel patterns; (6) travelers fears of exposure to contagious diseases, such as h1n1 flu, avian flu and severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ); (7) the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, and oil spills; (8) events that may be beyond our control that could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands; (9) taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, prices, interest rates, construction procedures, and costs; (10) the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, those associated with franchising, timeshare, lending, privacy, marketing and sales, 16 table of contents licensing, labor, employment, immigration, the environment, and the u.s. department of the treasury office of foreign asset control and the foreign corrupt practices act; (11) the availability and cost of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners to fund investments; (12) regional and national development of competing properties; (13) increases in wages and other labor costs, energy, healthcare, insurance, transportation and fuel, and other expenses central to the conduct of our business or the cost of travel for our customers, including recent increases in energy costs and any resulting increase in travel costs or decrease in airline capacity; (14) organized labor activities, which could cause the diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations, loss of group business, and/or increased labor costs; (15) currency exchange fluctuations; and (16) trademark or intellectual property infringement. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce the demand or the prices our hotels are able to obtain for hotel rooms, timeshare units, residential units, and corporate apartments or could increase our costs and therefore reduce the profit of our lodging businesses. reduced demand for hotels could also give rise to losses under loans, guarantees, and noncontrolling equity investments that we have made in connection with hotels that we manage. even where such factors do not reduce demand, property-level profit margins may suffer if we are unable to fully recover increased operating costs from our guests. similarly, our fee revenue could be impacted by weak property-level revenue or profitability. our hotel management and franchise agreements may also be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which the company fails or elects not to cure. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. general economic uncertainty and weak demand in the lodging and timeshare industries could continue to impact our financial results and growth. weak economic conditions in the united states, europe and much of the rest of the world and the uncertainty over the duration of these conditions could continue to have a negative impact on the lodging and timeshare industries. as a result of current economic conditions, we continue to experience weakened demand for our hotel rooms and timeshare products. recent improvements in demand trends globally may not continue, and our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if the recovery was to stall or conditions were to worsen. proposed spin-off risk the proposed spin-off of our timeshare division may not occur as or when planned or at all, or could result in issues we do not yet anticipate. unanticipated developments could delay, prevent the completion of, or otherwise adversely affect the proposed spin-off of our timeshare division, including any problems or delays in obtaining financing for the new timeshare company, regulatory approvals, third-party consents, a favorable letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or disruptions either in general market conditions or in the lodging or timeshare business. the transaction is also subject to final approval by our board of directors. completion of the proposed spin-off may require significant time, effort, and expense, and may divert management attention from other aspects of our business operations, which could adversely affect those operations. any delays in completion of the proposed spin-off may increase the amount of time, effort, and expense that we devote to the transaction. moreover, we may not be able to complete the spin-off on the terms currently anticipated as a result of financing issues or accommodations we may have to make to obtain the consent of regulators or other third parties. in addition, if we complete the proposed spin-off, the actual results may differ materially from the results we anticipate. specifically, the proposed transaction could adversely affect our relationships with our customers or employees (including those of the timeshare division) or disrupt our operations. the separated businesses could also face unanticipated problems in operating independently, and thus may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the separation. operational risks our lodging operations are subject to global, regional and national conditions. because we conduct our business on a global platform, our activities are susceptible to changes in the performance of both global and regional 17 table of contents economies. in recent years, our business has been hurt by decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism. our future economic performance could be similarly affected by the economic environment in each of the regions in which we operate, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and the occurrence of any future incidents in those regions. the growing significance of our operations outside of the united states also makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently operate or franchise hotels and resorts in 70 countries, and our operations outside the united states represented approximately 16 percent of our revenues in 2010. we expect that the international share of our total revenues will increase in future years. as a result, we are increasingly exposed to a number of challenges and risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including the following, any of which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, or disrupt our business: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of governments that may impact our operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with u.s. laws that affect the activities of u.s. companies abroad; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax effective manner; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; and (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation. our new programs and new branded products may not be successful. we cannot assure that our recently launched edition and autograph collection brands and marriott vacation club destination points-based timeshare program, the expected launch of ac hotels by marriott, or any new programs or products we may launch in the future will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other customers. we also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing the brands or any new programs or products, or that the brands or any new programs or products will be successful. in addition, some of our new brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with one or more third parties, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, and other natural disasters, man-made disasters such as the recent oil spill in the gulf of mexico, and the spread of contagious diseases, such as h1n1 flu, avian flu, and sars, in locations where we own, manage or franchise significant properties, and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers could cause a decline in the level of business and leisure travel and reduce the demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms, timeshare units, and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we are able to obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. disagreements with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or may delay implementation of product or service initiatives. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product or service initiatives. such disagreements may be more likely while hotel returns are weaker as a result of the 2008 2009 economic slow down. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners but are not always able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in a significant adverse judgment, settlement or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. damage to, or other potential losses involving, properties that we own, manage or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or 18 table of contents that of hotel owners or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations related to the property. development and financing risks while w e are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, we depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels and to develop timeshare properties, and we or our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both the company and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we can exert little control. instability in the financial markets following the 2008 worldwide financial crisis and the contraction of available liquidity and leverage continue to constrain the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. in addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. while lenders have shown a willingness to work with borrowers to extend relief in the short- to medium- term, some current and prospective hotel owners are still finding new hotel financing on commercially viable terms to be challenging. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our present growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we develop new hotel, timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as demonstrated by the 2009 impairment charges associated with our timeshare business, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) continued weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to further decreases in demand for residential, fractional or interval ownership, increases in mortgage rates and/or decreases in mortgage availability, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for these projects that are not pursued to completion. development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. such disputes may also be more likely in the current difficult business environment. 19 table of contents other risks associated with timeshare and residential properties disruption in the credit markets could impair our ability to securitize the loans that our timeshare business generates. our timeshare business provides financing to purchasers of our timeshare and fractional properties, and we periodically securitize interests in those loans in the capital markets. disruption in the credit markets in the second half of 2008 and much of 2009 impaired the timing and volume of the timeshare loans that we securitized, as well as the financial terms of such securitizations. improved market conditions in 2010 allowed us to successfully complete a securitization in the fourth quarter of 2010 on substantially more favorable terms. nonetheless, any future deterioration in the financial markets could preclude, delay or increase the cost to us of future note securitizations, which could in turn cause us to reduce spending in order to maintain our leverage and return targets. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties that are associated with our lodging and timeshare properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, through noncontrolling interests and/or licensing fees, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including luxury residences and condominiums under our ritz-carlton and marriott brands. such projects pose additional risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging and timeshare businesses, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: the continued weakness in residential real estate, vacation home prices, and demand generally will continue to reduce our profits and could result in losses on residential sales, increase our carrying costs due to a slower pace of sales than we anticipated, and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. purchaser defaults on the loans our timeshare business generates could reduce our timeshare revenues and profits. we are also subject to the risk of default on the financing we provide to purchasers of our timeshare and fractional properties. purchaser defaults could force us to foreclose on the loan and reclaim ownership of the financed property, both for loans that we have not securitized and in our role as servicer for the loans we have securitized. if we cannot resell foreclosed properties in a timely manner or at a price sufficient to repay the loans and our costs, we could incur losses or impairment charges on loans we have yet to securitize or loss of future income from our residual interest in loans that we have securitized. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging and timeshare industries continue to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management and property management systems, our marriott rewards and the ritz-carlton rewards programs, and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis. if we are unable to do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com &reg; , travelocity.com &reg; , and orbitz.com &reg; , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although marriott look no further &reg; best rate guarantee has greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google &reg; , bing &reg; and yahoo &reg; to steer customers toward their websites (a practice currently being challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although marriott has successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from www.marriott.com , or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. 20 table of contents failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, operational inefficiencies, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines, or lawsuits . our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems and those of our service providers. we also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. the integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. if that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. the regulatory environment surrounding information, security and privacy is also increasingly demanding, in both the united states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our systems may be unable to satisfy changing regulatory requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our service providers, may be subject to security breaches, system failures, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of data. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data maintained by us or by a service provider could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. a breach in the security of our information systems or those of our service providers could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the telemarketing sales rule, canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws, regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of timeshare units and other products. we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. other risks changes in tax and other laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of laws, regulations and policies in jurisdictions around the world. in response to the recent economic crisis and the recent recession, we anticipate that many of the jurisdictions in which we do business will review tax and other revenue raising laws, regulations and policies, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. in particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that could have a significant impact on us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-u.s. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. for example, most u.s. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the united states is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than u.s. tax rates. if changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations were to significantly increase the tax rates on non-u.s. income, our effective tax rate could increase, our profits could be reduced, and if such increases were a result of our status as a u.s. company, could place us at a disadvantage to our non-u.s. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we are not able to recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a stockholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the stockholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes in connection with mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder rights plan to replace the stockholder rights plan that expired in march 2008. 21 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how such exposure is managed in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities. we account for our investments as available-for-sale securities under the guidance for accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. at year-end 2010, our investments had a fair value of $18 million. we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-u.s. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. at year-end 2010, our balance sheet included a $1 million liability for currency exchange derivatives and a $1 million liability for interest rate swaps not designated as hedging instruments. please see footnote no. 1, summary of significant accounting policies, of the notes to our financial statements for additional information associated with derivative instruments. 60 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2010 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets- maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. timeshare segment notes receivable-non-securitized $ 55 $ 28 $ 24 $ 20 $ 19 $ 79 $ 225 $ 231 average interest rate 11.78 % timeshare segment notes receivable-securitized $ 118 $ 123 $ 130 $ 131 $ 126 $ 400 $ 1,028 $ 1,219 average interest rate 13.07 % fixed-rate notes receivable $ 3 $ 21 $ 2 $ 4 $ 75 $ 8 $ 113 $ 90 average interest rate 6.92 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 4 $ 0 $ 8 $ 1 $ 0 $ 65 $ 78 $ 47 average interest rate 3.42 % liabilities- maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (7 ) $ (354 ) $ (404 ) $ (6 ) $ (311 ) $ (702 ) $ (1,784 ) $ (1,916 ) average interest rate 5.56 % non-recourse debt associated with securitized timeshare segment notes receivable $ (126 ) $ (131 ) $ (138 ) $ (139 ) $ (134 ) $ (348 ) $ (1,016 ) $ (1,047 ) average interest rate 4.96 %risk factors 16 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties described below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on us or on our financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel properties for customers. we generally operate in markets that contain numerous competitors. each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services from those offered by others. if we cannot compete successfully in these areas, this could limit our operating margins, diminish our market share, and reduce our earnings. general economic uncertainty and weak demand in the lodging industry could continue to impact our financial results and growth. weak economic conditions in the united states, europe and much of the rest of the world and the uncertainty over the duration of these conditions could continue to have a negative impact on the lodging industry. as a result of current economic conditions, we continue to experience weakened demand for our hotel rooms, particularly in some markets. recent improvements in demand trends globally may not continue, and our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if the recovery stalls or conditions worsen. operational risks premature termination of our management or franchise agreements could hurt our financial performance. our hotel management and franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which the company fails or elects not to cure. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. our lodging operations are subject to global, regional and national conditions. because we conduct our business on a global platform, our activities are susceptible to changes in the performance of both global and regional economies. in recent years, our business has been hurt by decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism. our future economic performance could be similarly affected by the economic environment in each of the regions in which we operate, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and the occurrence of any future incidents in those regions. the growing significance of our operations outside of the united states also makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently operate or franchise hotels and resorts in 73 countries, and our operations outside the united states represented approximately 16 percent of our revenues in 2011 . we expect that the international share of our total revenues will increase in future years. as a result, we are increasingly exposed to a number of challenges and risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including the following, any of which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions or otherwise disrupt our business: (1) compliance with complex and changing 16 table of contents laws, regulations and policies of governments that may impact our operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with laws that affect the activities of companies abroad including u.s. and other jurisdictions' anti-corruption laws, currency regulations and laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax effective manner; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest, including in the middle east, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and (7) currency exchange rate fluctuations. our new programs and new branded products may not be successful. we cannot assure that our recently launched edition, autograph collection and ac hotels by marriott brands or any new programs or products we may launch in the future will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other customers. we also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing the brands or any new programs or products, or that the brands or any new programs or products will be successful. in addition, some of our new brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with one or more third parties, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters, man-made disasters such as the recent oil spill in the gulf of mexico and, more recently, the aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami in japan, and the spread of contagious diseases, such as h1n1 flu, avian flu, and sars, in locations where we own, manage or franchise significant properties, and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers could cause a decline in the level of business and leisure travel and reduce the demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest or civil strife, such as recent events in egypt, libya and bahrain, and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we can obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. disagreements with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or may delay implementation of product or service initiatives. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product or service initiatives. such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are weaker. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners but are not always able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in a significant adverse judgment, settlement or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands could have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. events that may be beyond our control could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. if the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected. actions by our franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our image and reputation. we franchise and license many of our brand names and trademarks to third parties in connection with lodging, timeshare and residential services. under the terms of their agreements with us, our franchisees and licensees interact directly with customers and other third parties under our brand and trade names. if these franchisees or licensees fail to maintain or act in accordance with applicable brand standards, experience operational problems, or project a brand image inconsistent with ours, our image and reputation could suffer. although our franchise and license agreements provide us with recourse and remedies in the event of a breach by the franchisee or licensee, including termination of the agreements under certain circumstances, pursuing any such recourse, remedy or termination could be expensive and time consuming . in addition, while we believe that our contractual termination rights are strong, we cannot assure you that a court would ultimately enforce those rights in every instance. damage to, or losses involving, properties that we own, manage or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, 17 table of contents hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of our information systems may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or that of hotel owners or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations related to the property. development and financing risks while w e are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, our hotel owners depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels, and our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both the company and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we can exert little control. instability in the financial markets and the difficulty of obtaining financing on attractive terms, or at all, continues to constrain the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. in addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our present growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we develop new hotel and residential properties, and previously developed timeshare interval and fractional ownership properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as demonstrated by the 2009 and 2011 impairment charges associated with our former timeshare business, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) continued weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to further decreases in demand for residential, increases in mortgage rates and/or decreases in mortgage availability, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for these projects that are not pursued to completion. development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. such disputes may also be more likely in the current difficult business environment. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties that are associated with our lodging properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, through noncontrolling interests and/or 18 table of contents licensing fees, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including luxury residences and condominiums under our ritz-carlton and marriott brands. such projects pose additional risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging businesses, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: the continued weakness in residential real estate and demand generally will continue to reduce our profits and could result in losses on residential sales, increase our carrying costs due to a slower pace of sales than we anticipated, and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management and property management systems, our marriott rewards and the ritz-carlton rewards programs, and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis. if we are unable to do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com , travelocity.com , and orbitz.com , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although marriott's look no further best rate guarantee has greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google , bing and yahoo to steer customers toward their websites (a practice currently being challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although marriott has successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries' websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from marriott.com, or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, operational inefficiencies, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines, or lawsuits . our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide services, including in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and email marketing. we also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. the integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. if that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. the regulatory environment as well as the requirements imposed on us by the payment card industry surrounding information, security and privacy is also increasingly demanding, in both the united states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our systems may be unable to satisfy changing regulatory and payment card industry requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our service providers, may be subject to security breaches, system failures, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of data. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data maintained by us or by a service provider could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. a breach in the security of our information systems or those of our service providers could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. early in 2011, we were notified by epsilon, a marketing vendor used by the company to manage customer emails, that an unauthorized third party gained access to a number of epsilon's accounts including the company's email list. epsilon has stated that the unauthorized person(s) had access only to names and email addresses of the company's customers and did not have access to other customer information, such as physical addresses, loyalty program point balances, account logins and 19 table of contents passwords, credit card information or other personal data. we have informed our affected customers of the breach and that it may result in receiving unsolicited emails. changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws, regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email, online advertising, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of certain products. we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company's marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. other risks changes in tax and other laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of laws, regulations and policies in jurisdictions around the world. in response to the recent economic crisis and the recent recession, we anticipate that many of the jurisdictions in which we do business continue to review tax and other revenue raising laws, regulations and policies, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. in particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that could have a significant impact on us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-u.s. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. for example, most u.s. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the united states is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than u.s. tax rates. if changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-u.s. income, our effective tax rate could increase and our profits could be reduced. if such increases resulted from our status as a u.s. company, those changes could place us at a disadvantage to our non-u.s. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. the spin-off could result in significant tax liability to us and our shareholders. although we received a private letter ruling from the irs and an opinion from our tax counsel confirming that the distribution of marriott vacations worldwide corporation ("mvw") common stock will not result in the recognition, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, of income, gain or loss to us or our shareholders (except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares of mvw common stock), the private letter ruling and opinion that we received are subject to the continuing validity of any assumptions and representations reflected therein. in addition, an opinion from our tax counsel is not binding on the irs or a court. moreover, certain future events that may or may not be within our control, including certain extraordinary purchases of our stock or mvw's stock, could cause the distribution not to qualify as tax-free. accordingly, the irs could determine that the distribution of the mvw common stock is a taxable transaction and a court could agree with the irs. if the distribution of the mvw common stock is determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders who received shares of mvw common stock in the spin-off could incur significant tax liabilities. under the tax sharing and indemnification agreement that we entered into with mvw, we are entitled to indemnification from mvw for certain taxes and related losses resulting from the failure of the distribution of mvw common stock to qualify as tax-free as a result of (i) any breach by mvw or its subsidiaries of the covenants regarding the preservation of the tax-free status of the distribution, (ii) certain acquisitions of equity securities or assets of mvw or its subsidiaries, and (iii) any breach by mvw or its subsidiaries of certain representations in the documents submitted to the irs and the separation documents relating to the spin-off. if, however, the distribution fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction for reasons other than those specified in the indemnification provisions of the tax sharing and indemnification agreement, liability for any resulting taxes related to the distribution will be apportioned between us and mvw based on our relative fair market values. the spin-off might not produce the cash tax benefits we anticipate. in connection with the spin-off, we completed an internal reorganization, which included transactions that have been structured in a manner that are expected to result, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, in our recognition of built-in losses in properties used in the north american and luxury segments of the timeshare division. the recognition of these built-in losses and corresponding tax deductions are expected to generate significant cash tax benefits for us. although we received a private letter ruling from the irs and an opinion from our tax counsel confirming that these built-in losses will be recognized and deducted by us, the private letter ruling and opinion that we received are subject to the continuing validity of any assumptions and representations reflected therein. accordingly, the irs could determine that the built-in losses should not be recognized or deductions for such losses should be disallowed and a court could agree with the irs. if we are unable to deduct these losses for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and, instead, the tax basis of the properties that is attributable to the built-in losses is available to mvw and its subsidiaries, mvw has agreed, 20 table of contents pursuant to the tax sharing and indemnification agreement, to indemnify us for certain tax benefits that we otherwise would have recognized if we were able to deduct such losses. for additional information on the cash tax benefits anticipated, see the "liquidity and capital resources" caption within part ii item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" of this report. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we cannot recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a stockholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the stockholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes in connection with mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder's rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, stock prices, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how such exposure is managed in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities and fluctuations in stock price related to our investment in a publicly traded company. changes in the price of the underlying stock can impact the fair value of our investment. we account for our investments as available-for-sale securities under the guidance for accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. at year-end 2011, our investments had a fair value of $50 million. we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-u.s. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. at year-end 2011, our balance sheet included a $2 million asset for currency exchange derivatives and a $9 million liability for an interest rate swap. please see footnote no. 1, summary of significant accounting policies, of the notes to our financial statements for additional information associated with derivative instruments. 60 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2011 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets- maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. fixed-rate notes receivable $ 76 $ 48 $ 34 $ 23 $ 44 $ 57 $ 282 $ 279 average interest rate 3.45 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 8 $ 1 $ 1 $ $ $ 90 $ 100 $ 54 average interest rate 4.84 % liabilities- maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (354 ) $ (406 ) $ (7 ) $ (315 ) $ (629 ) $ (396 ) $ (2,107 ) $ (1,886 ) average interest rate 6.60 % 61 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, or similar expressions. any number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on us or on our financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report or in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel properties for customers. we generally operate in markets that contain numerous competitors. each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services, including our loyalty programs and consumer-facing technology platforms and services, from those offered by others. if we cannot compete successfully in these areas, our operating margins could contract, our market share could decrease, and our earnings could decline. economic uncertainty could continue to impact our financial results and growth. weak economic conditions in europe and other parts of the world, the strength or continuation of recovery in countries that have experienced improved economic conditions, potential disruptions in the u.s. economy as a result of governmental action or inaction on the federal deficit, budget, and related issues, political instability in some areas, and the uncertainty over how long any of these conditions will continue, could continue to have a negative impact on the lodging industry. u.s. government travel is also a significant part of our business, and our business could suffer if budget-related decisions reduce the amount of travel by u.s. government employees and contractors or place restrictions on aspects of travel. as a result of such current economic conditions and uncertainty, we continue to experience weakened demand for our hotel rooms in some markets. recent improvements in demand trends in other markets may not continue, and our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if the recovery stalls or conditions worsen. operational risks premature termination of our management or franchise agreements could hurt our financial performance. our hotel management and franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which the company fails or elects not to cure. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. our lodging operations are subject to global, regional, and national conditions. because we conduct our business on a global platform, our activities are affected by changes in global and regional economies. in recent years, our business has been hurt by decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism. our future performance could be similarly affected by the economic environment in each of the regions in which we operate, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and the occurrence of any future incidents in those regions. the growing significance of our operations outside of the united states also makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits, or disrupt our business. we currently operate or franchise hotels and resorts in 74 countries, and our operations outside the united states 17 table of contents represented approximately 16 percent of our revenues in 2012 . we expect that the international share of our total revenues will increase in future years. as a result, we are increasingly exposed to the challenges and risks of doing business outside the united states, which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions, or otherwise disrupt our business. these challenges include: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of governments that may impact our operations, such as foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with u.s. and foreign laws that affect the activities of companies abroad, such as anti-corruption laws, competition laws, currency regulations, and laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax effective manner; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest in the middle east and elsewhere, acts of terrorism, or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and (7) currency exchange rate fluctuations. our new programs and new branded products may not be successful. we cannot assure you that our recently launched edition, autograph collection, and ac hotels by marriott brands, our recent acquisition of the gaylord brand, or any new programs or products we may launch in the future will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other customers. we also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing or acquiring the brands or any new programs or products, or that the brands or any new programs or products will be successful. in addition, some of our new brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with one or more third parties, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters and man-made disasters in recent years, such as hurricane sandy in the northeastern united states, the earthquake and tsunami in japan, and the spread of contagious diseases in locations where we own, manage, or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers, could cause a decline in the level of business and leisure travel and reduce the demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, or civil strife, such as recent events in syria, egypt, libya, and bahrain, and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we can obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. disagreements with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or may delay implementation of product or service initiatives. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product or service initiatives. such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are weaker. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners but are not always able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in a significant adverse judgment, settlement, or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands could have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. events that may be beyond our control could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. if the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be affected. actions by our franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our image and reputation. we franchise and license many of our brand names and trademarks to third parties in connection with lodging, timeshare, and residential services. under the terms of their agreements with us, our franchisees and licensees interact directly with customers and other third parties under our brand and trade names. if these franchisees or licensees fail to maintain or act in accordance with applicable brand standards, experience operational problems, or project a brand image inconsistent with ours, our image and reputation could suffer. although our franchise and license agreements provide us with recourse and remedies in the event of a breach by the franchisee or licensee, including termination of the agreements under certain circumstances, pursuing any such recourse, remedy, or termination could be expensive and time consuming . in addition, we cannot assure you that a court would ultimately enforce our contractual termination rights in every instance. 18 table of contents damage to, or losses involving, properties that we own, manage, or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of our information systems may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or that of hotel owners or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations for the property. development and financing risks while w e are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, our hotel owners depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels, and our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both the company and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we can exert little control. the difficulty of obtaining financing on attractive terms, or at all, continues to constrain the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. in addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we develop new hotel and residential properties, and previously developed timeshare interval and fractional ownership properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as demonstrated by the 2009 and 2011 impairment charges for our former timeshare business, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) continued weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to further decreases in demand for residential properties, increases in mortgage rates and/or decreases in mortgage availability, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for any projects that we do not pursue to completion. 19 table of contents development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create added risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies, or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures, or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. such disputes may also be more likely in difficult business environments. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties associated with our lodging properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, either directly or through noncontrolling interests and/or licensing agreements, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including residences and condominiums under our the ritz-carlton, edition, jw marriott, autograph collection, and marriott brand names and trademarks. such projects pose further risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging businesses, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: (1) the continued weakness in residential real estate and demand generally may continue to reduce our profits and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; (2) increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and (3) residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management, and property management systems, our marriott rewards and the ritz-carlton rewards programs, and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis, and if we cannot do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com , travelocity.com , and orbitz.com , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although marriott's look no further best rate guarantee has helped prevent customer preference shift to the intermediaries and greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google , bing , yahoo , and baidu to steer customers toward their websites (a practice that has been challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although marriott has successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries' websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. in addition, recent class action litigation against several online travel intermediaries and lodging companies, including marriott, challenges the legality under antitrust law of contract provisions that support programs such as marriott's look no further best rate guarantee, and we cannot assure you that the courts will ultimately uphold such provisions. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from marriott.com, or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, operational inefficiencies, damage to our reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines, or lawsuits . our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide services, including in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and various forms of electronic communications. we and third parties who provide services to us also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. the integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. if that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. the information, security, and privacy requirements imposed by governmental regulation and the requirements of the payment card industry are also increasingly demanding, in both the united states and other jurisdictions where we operate. our systems may not be able to 20 table of contents satisfy these changing requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data all threaten our and our service provider's information systems and records. our reliance on computer, internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to such systems have increased significantly in recent years. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. a breach in the security of our information systems or those of our service providers could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws on marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email, online advertising, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of certain products. we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company's marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. other risks changes in tax and other laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of laws, regulations, and policies in jurisdictions around the world. in response to the economic environment, we anticipate that many of the jurisdictions in which we do business will continue to review tax and other revenue raising laws, regulations, and policies, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. in particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations, or official interpretations in ways that could have a significant impact on us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-u.s. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. for example, most u.s. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the united states is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than u.s. tax rates. if changes in tax laws, regulations, or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-u.s. income, our effective tax rate could increase and our profits could be reduced. if such increases resulted from our status as a u.s. company, those changes could place us at a disadvantage to our non-u.s. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. the 2011 spin-off of our former timeshare business could result in significant tax liability to us and our shareholders. as discussed in more detail in footnote no. 16, "spin-off" to our financial statements, in 2011 we completed the spin-off of our timeshare operations and timeshare development business. although we received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service ("irs") and an opinion from our tax counsel confirming that the distribution of mvw common stock will not result in the recognition, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, of income, gain or loss to us or our shareholders (except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares of mvw common stock), the private letter ruling and opinion that we received are subject to the continuing validity of any assumptions and representations reflected therein. in addition, an opinion from our tax counsel is not binding on the irs or a court. moreover, certain future events that may or may not be within our control, including certain extraordinary purchases of our stock or mvw's stock, could cause the distribution not to qualify as tax-free. accordingly, the irs could determine that the distribution of the mvw common stock was a taxable transaction and a court could agree with the irs. if the distribution of the mvw common stock was determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders who received shares of mvw common stock in the spin-off could incur significant tax liabilities. under the tax sharing and indemnification agreement that we entered into with mvw, we are entitled to indemnification from mvw for certain taxes and related losses resulting from the failure of the distribution of mvw common stock to qualify as tax-free as a result of (1) any breach by mvw or its subsidiaries of the covenants on the preservation of the tax-free status of the distribution, (2) certain acquisitions of equity securities or assets of mvw or its subsidiaries, and (3) any breach by mvw or its subsidiaries of certain representations in the documents submitted to the irs and the separation documents relating to the spin-off. if, however, the distribution failed to qualify as a tax-free transaction for reasons other than those specified in the indemnification provisions of the tax sharing and indemnification agreement, liability for any resulting taxes for the distribution would be apportioned between us and mvw based on our relative fair market values. the 2011 spin-off also might not produce the cash tax benefits we anticipate. in connection with the spin-off, we completed an internal reorganization, which included transactions that were structured in a manner intended to result, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, in our recognition of built-in losses in properties used in the north american and luxury 21 table of contents segments of the timeshare division. our recognition of these built-in losses and corresponding tax deductions has generated and we expect will continue to generate significant cash tax benefits for us. although we received a private letter ruling from the irs and an opinion from our tax counsel confirming that these built-in losses may be recognized and deducted by us, the private letter ruling and opinion that we received are subject to the continuing validity of any assumptions and representations reflected therein. accordingly, the irs could determine that the built-in losses should not have been recognized or deductions for such losses should be disallowed and a court could agree with the irs. if we were unable to deduct these losses for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and, instead, the tax basis of the properties attributable to the built-in losses were available to mvw and its subsidiaries, mvw has agreed, pursuant to the tax sharing and indemnification agreement, to indemnify us for certain tax benefits that we otherwise have recognized or would have recognized if we were able to deduct such losses. for more information on the cash tax benefits we anticipate, see the "liquidity and capital resources" caption within part ii item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" of this report. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we cannot recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a stockholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the stockholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes for mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder's rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, stock prices, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how we manage such exposure in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable and floating-rate debt. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities and fluctuations in stock price from our investment in a publicly traded company. changes in the price of the underlying stock can impact the fair value of our investment. we account for our investments as available-for-sale securities under the guidance for accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. at year-end 2012, our investments had a fair value of $56 million. we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-u.s. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. at year-end 2012, our balance sheet included a $2 million asset for currency exchange derivatives. please see footnote no. 1, summary of significant accounting policies, to our financial statements for more information on derivative instruments. 61 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2012 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets- maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. fixed-rate notes receivable $ 54 $ 43 $ 60 $ $ $ 44 $ 201 $ 199 average interest rate 3.99 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 8 $ 12 $ 4 $ 1 $ $ 16 $ 41 $ 34 average interest rate 1.04 % liabilities- maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (406 ) $ (6 ) $ (316 ) $ (296 ) $ (300 ) $ (1,045 ) $ (2,369 ) $ (2,153 ) average interest rate 4.78 % floating-rate debt $ $ $ $ (516 ) $ $ $ (516 ) $ (516 ) average interest rate 0.38 % 62 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates or similar expressions. any number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the "sec"). we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on us or on our financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report or in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel properties for customers. we generally operate in markets that contain numerous competitors. each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services, including our loyalty programs and consumer-facing technology platforms and services, from those offered by others. if we cannot compete successfully in these areas, our operating margins could contract, our market share could decrease, and our earnings could decline. economic uncertainty could continue to impact our financial results and growth. weak economic conditions in europe and other parts of the world, the strength or continuation of recovery in countries that have experienced improved economic conditions, potential disruptions in the u.s. economy as a result of governmental action or inaction on the federal deficit, budget, and related issues, including the recent u.s. federal government shutdown, political instability in some areas, and the uncertainty over how long any of these conditions will continue, could continue to have a negative impact on the lodging industry. u.s. government travel is also a significant part of our business, and this aspect of our business will likely continue to suffer due to recent u.s. federal spending cuts and any further limitations that may result from congressional action or inaction. as a result of such current economic conditions and uncertainty, we continue to experience weakened demand for our hotel rooms in some markets. recent improvements in demand trends in other markets may not continue, and our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if the recovery stalls or conditions worsen. operational risks premature termination of our management or franchise agreements could hurt our financial performance. our hotel management and franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which the company fails or elects not to cure. in addition, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, including us (or have interpreted hotel management agreements as personal services contracts ). this means, among other things, that property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements provide otherwise, and some courts have upheld such assertions regarding our management agreements and may do so in the future. in the event of any such termination, we may need to enforce our right to damages for breach of contract and related claims, which may cause us to incur significant legal fees and expenses. any damages we ultimately collect could be less than the projected future value of the fees and other amounts we would have otherwise collected under the management agreement. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. 17 table of contents our lodging operations are subject to global, regional, and national conditions. because we conduct our business on a global platform, our activities are affected by changes in global and regional economies. in recent years, our business has been hurt by decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism. our future performance could be similarly affected by the economic environment in each of the regions in which we operate, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and the occurrence of any future incidents in those regions. the growing significance of our operations outside of the united states also makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits, or disrupt our business. we currently operate or franchise hotels and resorts in 72 countries, and our operations outside the united states represented approximately 17 percent of our revenues in 2013 . we expect that the international share of our total revenues will continue to increase in future years. as a result, we are increasingly exposed to the challenges and risks of doing business outside the united states, which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions, or otherwise disrupt our business. these challenges include: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of governments that may impact our operations, such as foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with u.s. and foreign laws that affect the activities of companies abroad, such as anti-corruption laws, competition laws, currency regulations, and laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax effective manner; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest in the middle east and elsewhere, acts of terrorism, or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and (7) currency exchange rate fluctuations. our new programs and new branded products may not be successful. we cannot assure you that recently launched, newly acquired or recently announced brands, such as edition, autograph collection, ac hotels by marriott, gaylord hotels, moxy hotels, or any other new programs or products we may launch in the future will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other customers. we also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing or acquiring the brands or any new programs or products, or that the brands or any new programs or products will be successful. in addition, some of our new brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with one or more third parties, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters and man-made disasters in recent years, such as hurricane sandy in the northeastern united states, the earthquake and tsunami in japan, and the spread of contagious diseases in locations where we own, manage, or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers, could cause a decline in the level of business and leisure travel and reduce the demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, or civil strife, such as recent events in syria, egypt, libya, and bahrain, and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we can obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. disagreements with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or may delay implementation of product or service initiatives. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product or service initiatives. such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are weaker. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners but are not always able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in a significant adverse judgment, settlement, or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands could have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. events that may be beyond our control could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. if the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be affected. 18 table of contents actions by our franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our image and reputation. we franchise and license many of our brand names and trademarks to third parties in connection with lodging, timeshare, and residential services. under the terms of their agreements with us, our franchisees and licensees interact directly with customers and other third parties under our brand and trade names. if these franchisees or licensees fail to maintain or act in accordance with applicable brand standards, experience operational problems, or project a brand image inconsistent with ours, our image and reputation could suffer. although our franchise and license agreements provide us with recourse and remedies in the event of a breach by the franchisee or licensee, including termination of the agreements under certain circumstances, pursuing any such recourse, remedy, or termination could be expensive and time consuming . in addition, we cannot assure you that a court would ultimately enforce our contractual termination rights in every instance. damage to, or losses involving, properties that we own, manage, or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of our information systems may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or that of hotel owners or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations for the property. development and financing risks while w e are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, our hotel owners depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels, and our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both the company and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we can exert little control. the difficulty of obtaining financing on attractive terms can, at times, be constrained by the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. in addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we develop new hotel and residential properties, and previously developed timeshare interval and fractional ownership properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as demonstrated by the 2009 and 2011 impairment charges for our former timeshare business, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) continued weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to decreases in demand for hotel and residential properties, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for any projects that we do not pursue to completion. 19 table of contents development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create added risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies, or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures, or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. such disputes may also be more likely in difficult business environments. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties associated with our lodging properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, directly or through noncontrolling interests and/or licensing agreements, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including residences and condominiums under our the ritz-carlton, edition, jw marriott, autograph collection, and marriott brand names and trademarks. such projects pose further risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging businesses, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: (1) the continued weakness in residential real estate and demand generally may continue to reduce our profits and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; (2) increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and (3) residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. some hotel openings in our existing development pipeline and approved projects may be delayed or not result in new hotels, which could adversely affect our growth prospects. at year-end 2013 we reported approximately 1,165 hotels in our development pipeline, which includes hotels under construction and under signed contracts, as well as over 170 hotels approved for development but not yet under signed contracts. the eventual opening of the hotels in our development pipeline and, in particular, the hotels approved for development that are not yet under contract, is subject to numerous risks, including in some cases the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing or governmental or regulatory approvals. accordingly, we cannot assure you that our development pipeline, and in particular hotels approved for development, will result in new hotels that enter our system, or that those hotels will open when we anticipate. planned transactions that we announce may be delayed, not occur at all, or involve unanticipated costs. from time to time we announce transactions that we expect will close at a future date, such as the recently announced acquisition of protea hotel group's brands and management business and disposition of our edition hotels in miami beach and new york upon completion of construction. if the conditions to consummating these transactions are neither satisfied nor waived by the time we expect, the closings could be delayed or not occur at all. in addition, the edition contracts are for a fixed purchase price based upon the estimated total development costs for the hotels and we will not recover any development costs in excess of the agreed purchase price, so we will bear those development costs to the extent that they are higher than we anticipated when we agreed to the transaction. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management, and property management systems, our marriott rewards and the ritz-carlton rewards programs, and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis, and if we cannot do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com , travelocity.com , and orbitz.com , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although marriott's look no further best rate guarantee has helped prevent customer preference shift to the intermediaries and greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google , bing , yahoo , and baidu to steer customers toward their websites (a practice that has been challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although marriott has successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive 20 table of contents traffic to intermediaries' websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. in addition, recent class action litigation against several online travel intermediaries and lodging companies, including marriott, challenges the legality under antitrust law of contract provisions that support programs such as marriott's look no further best rate guarantee, and we cannot assure you that the courts will ultimately uphold such provisions. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from marriott.com, or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, operational inefficiencies, damage to our reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines, or lawsuits . our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide services, including in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and various forms of electronic communications. we and third parties who provide services to us also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. the integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. if that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. the information, security, and privacy requirements imposed by governmental regulation and the requirements of the payment card industry are also increasingly demanding, in both the united states and other jurisdictions where we operate. our systems or our franchisees' systems may not be able to satisfy these changing requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data may materially impact our and our service providers' information systems and records. our reliance on computer, internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to such systems have increased significantly in recent years. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. breaches in the security of our information systems or those of our franchisees or service providers or other disruptions in data services could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws on marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email, online advertising, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of certain products. we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company's marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. other risks changes in laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. our businesses are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations, and policies in jurisdictions around the world, including those for financial reporting, taxes, healthcare, and the environment. changes to these laws, regulations, and policies, including those associated with health care, tax or financial reforms, could reduce our profits. further, we anticipate that many of the jurisdictions in which we do business will continue to review tax and other revenue raising laws, regulations, and policies, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. in particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations, or official interpretations in ways that could have a significant impact on us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-u.s. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. for example, most u.s. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the united states is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than u.s. tax rates. if changes in tax laws, regulations, or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-u.s. income, our effective tax rate could increase and our profits could be reduced. if such increases resulted from our status as a u.s. company, those changes could place us at a disadvantage to our non-u.s. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we cannot recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our 21 table of contents businesses. any shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase our labor costs, which could reduce our profits of our third-party owners. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a stockholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the stockholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes for mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder's rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, stock prices, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how we manage such exposure in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable and floating-rate debt. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities and fluctuations in stock price from our investment in a publicly traded company. changes in the price of the underlying stock can impact the fair value of our investment. we account for our investments as available-for-sale securities under the guidance for accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. at year-end 2013, our investments had a fair value of $41 million. we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-u.s. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. see footnote no. 1, summary of significant accounting policies, for more information on derivative instruments. 58 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2013 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets- maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. fixed-rate notes receivable $ 35 $ 82 $ 3 $ 3 $ 5 $ 36 $ 164 $ 163 average interest rate 4.27 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 1 $ 3 $ 1 $ $ $ 9 $ 14 $ 18 average interest rate 0.33 % liabilities- maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (6 ) $ (319 ) $ (297 ) $ (300 ) $ (9 ) $ (1,384 ) $ (2,315 ) $ (2,432 ) average interest rate 4.56 % floating-rate debt $ $ $ $ $ (834 ) $ $ (834 ) $ (834 ) average interest rate 0.43 % 59 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates or similar expressions. any number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on us or on our financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those we express in forward-looking statements contained in this report or in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel properties for customers. we operate in markets that contain many competitors. each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services, including our loyalty programs and consumer-facing technology platforms and services, from those offered by others. if we cannot compete successfully in these areas, our operating margins could contract, our market share could decrease, and our earnings could decline. further, new lodging supply in individual markets could have a negative impact on the hotel industry and hamper our ability to increase room rates or occupancy in those markets. economic uncertainty could continue to impact our financial results and growth. weak economic conditions in europe and other parts of the world, the strength or continuation of recovery in countries that have experienced improved economic conditions, changes in oil prices and currency values, potential disruptions in the u.s. economy as a result of governmental action or inaction on the federal deficit, budget, and related issues, including for example the 2013 u.s. federal government shutdown, political instability in some areas, and the uncertainty over how long any of these conditions will continue, could continue to have a negative impact on the lodging industry. u.s. government travel is also a significant part of our business, and this aspect of our business may continue to suffer due to u.s. federal spending cuts and any further limitations that may result from congressional action or inaction. as a result of such current economic conditions and uncertainty, we continue to experience weakened demand for our hotel rooms in some markets. recent improvements in demand trends in other markets may not continue, and our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if the recovery stalls or conditions worsen. operational risks premature termination of our management or franchise agreements could hurt our financial performance. our hotel management and franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which we fail or elect not to cure. in addition, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, including us (or have interpreted hotel management agreements as personal services contracts ). this means, among other things, that property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements provide otherwise, and some courts have upheld such assertions about our management agreements and may do so in the future. if such terminations occur, we may need to enforce our right to damages for breach of contract and related claims, which may cause us to incur significant legal fees and expenses. any damages we ultimately collect could be less than the projected future value of the fees and other amounts we would have otherwise collected under the management agreement. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. 15 table of contents our lodging operations are subject to global, regional, and national conditions. because we conduct our business on a global platform, changes in global and regional economies impact our activities. in recent years, decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism have hurt our business. our future performance could be similarly affected by the economic environment in each of our operating regions, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and any future incidents in those regions. the growing significance of our operations outside of the united states makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits, disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. we currently operate or franchise hotels and resorts in 79 countries, and our operations outside the united states represented approximately 18 percent of our revenues in 2014 . we expect that our international revenues will continue to grow. as a result, we are increasingly exposed to the challenges and risks of doing business outside the united states, many of which are outside of our control, and which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions, otherwise disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. these challenges include: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and government policies that may impact our operations, such as foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with u.s. and foreign laws that affect the activities of companies abroad, such as competition laws, currency regulations, and other laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax effective manner; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest in the middle east and elsewhere, acts of terrorism, or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and (7) currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may impact the results and cash flows of our international operations. any failure by our international operations to comply with anti-corruption laws or trade sanctions could increase our costs, reduce our profits, limit our growth, harm our reputation, or subject us to broader liability. we are subject to restrictions imposed by the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws and regulations of other countries applicable to our operations, such as the uk bribery act. anti-corruption laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons in order to receive or retain business. the compliance programs, internal controls and policies we maintain and enforce to promote compliance with applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws may not prevent our associates, contractors or agents from acting in ways prohibited by these laws and regulations. we are also subject to trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control and the u.s. department of commerce. our compliance programs and internal controls also may not prevent conduct that is prohibited under these rules. the united states may impose additional sanctions at any time against any country in which or with whom we do business. depending on the nature of the sanctions imposed, our operations in the relevant country could be restricted or otherwise adversely affected. any violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations or trade sanctions could result in significant civil and criminal penalties, reduce our profits, disrupt our business or damage our reputation. in addition, an imposition of further restrictions in these areas could increase our cost of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the united states. accordingly, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars we receive from foreign currency revenues. we are also exposed to currency translation risk because the results of our business outside of the u.s. are generally reported in local currency, which we then translate to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar affect the amounts we record for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our financial results. we expect that our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow as the relative contribution of our non-u.s. operations increases. our efforts to mitigate some of our foreign currency exposure by entering into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions to reduce exposures to some of the principal currencies in which we receive management and franchise fees may not be successful. in this regard, these hedging agreements do not cover all currencies in which we do business, do not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely for the currencies that they do cover, and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. some of our management agreements and related contracts require us to make payments to owners if the hotels do not achieve specified levels of operating profit. some of our contracts with hotel owners require that we fund shortfalls if the hotels do not attain specified levels of operating profit. we may not be able to recover any fundings of such performance guarantees, which could lower our profits and reduce our cash flows. our new programs and new branded products may not be successful. we cannot assure you that recently launched, newly acquired, or recently announced brands, such as edition, ac hotels by marriott in the americas, protea hotels, moxy 16 table of contents hotels, and, upon completion of the acquisition, delta hotels and resorts, or any other new programs or products we may launch in the future will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other customers. we also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing or acquiring the brands or any new programs or products, or that the brands or any new programs or products will be successful. in addition, some of our new brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with one or more third parties, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters, such as hurricane sandy in the northeastern united states, the earthquake and tsunami in japan, and man-made disasters in recent years and the potential spread of contagious diseases such as ebola in locations where we own, manage, or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers, could cause a decline in business or leisure travel and reduce demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, or civil strife, such as recent events in ukraine and russia, the middle east, and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we can obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. disagreements with owners of hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or may delay implementation of product or service initiatives. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product or service initiatives and the timing and amount of capital investments. such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are weaker. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners, but we are not always able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in a significant adverse judgment, settlement, or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands could have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. events that may be beyond our control could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. if the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be affected. actions by our franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our image and reputation. we franchise and license many of our brand names and trademarks to third parties in connection with lodging, timeshare, residential services, and our credit card programs. under the terms of their agreements with us, our franchisees and licensees interact directly with customers and other third parties under our brand and trade names. if these franchisees or licensees fail to maintain or act in accordance with applicable brand standards; experience operational problems, including any data breach involving customer information; or project a brand image inconsistent with ours, our image and reputation could suffer. although our franchise and license agreements provide us with recourse and remedies in the event of a breach by the franchisee or licensee, including termination of the agreements under certain circumstances, pursuing any such recourse, remedy, or termination could be expensive and time consuming . in addition, we cannot assure you that a court would ultimately enforce our contractual termination rights in every instance. damage to, or losses involving, properties that we own, manage, or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our managed, leased, and owned properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary, and require our franchisees to maintain similar levels of insurance. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we or our franchisees can obtain, or our or their ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of our information systems, may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we and our franchisees may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we or our franchisees carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of any lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of any capital that we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations for the property. 17 table of contents development and financing risks while w e are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, our hotel owners depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels, and our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both we and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we can exert little control. the difficulty of obtaining financing on attractive terms may be constrained by the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. in addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we develop new hotel and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as demonstrated by the impairment charges that we recorded in the 2014 first half in connection with our development and construction of three edition hotels, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that (1) continued weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to decreases in demand for hotel and residential properties, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for any projects that we do not pursue to completion. development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create added risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies, or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures, or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. such disputes may also be more likely in difficult business environments. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties associated with our lodging properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, directly or through noncontrolling interests and/or licensing agreements, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including residences and condominiums under our the ritz-carlton, edition, jw marriott, autograph collection, and marriott brand names and trademarks. such projects pose further risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging business, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: (1) weakness in residential real estate and demand generally may reduce our profits and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; (2) increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and (3) residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. 18 table of contents some hotel openings in our existing development pipeline and approved projects may be delayed or not result in new hotels, which could adversely affect our growth prospects. we report a significant number of hotels in our development pipeline, including hotels under construction and under signed contracts, as well as hotels approved for development but not yet under signed contracts. the eventual opening of such pipeline hotels and, in particular, the hotels approved for development that are not yet under contract, is subject to numerous risks, including in some cases the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing or governmental or regulatory approvals. accordingly, we cannot assure you that our development pipeline, and in particular hotels not yet under contract, will result in new hotels that enter our system, or that those hotels will open when we anticipate. if we incur losses on loans or loan guarantees that we have made to third parties, our profits could decline. at times, we make loans for hotel development or renovation expenditures in connection with entering into or amending management or franchise agreements. from time to time we also provide third-party lenders financial guarantees for the timely repayment of all or a portion of debt related to hotels that we manage or franchise, generally subject to an obligation that the owner reimburse us for any fundings. we could suffer losses if hotel owners or franchisees default on loans that we provide or fail to reimburse us for loan guarantees that we have funded. if owners of hotels that we manage or franchise cannot repay or refinance mortgage loans secured by their properties, our revenues and profits could decrease and our business could be harmed. the owners of many of our managed or franchised properties have pledged their hotels as collateral for mortgage loans that they entered into when those properties were purchased or refinanced. if those owners cannot repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, the lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt, and repossess the property. such sales or repossessions could, in some cases, result in the termination of our management or franchise agreements and eliminate our anticipated income and cash flows, which could negatively affect our results of operations. planned transactions that we announce may be delayed, not occur at all, or involve unanticipated costs. from time to time we announce transactions that we expect will close at a future date, such as the disposition of the new york (madison square park) edition hotel upon completion of construction or the acquisition of delta hotels. if the conditions to consummating these transactions are neither satisfied nor waived by the time we expect, the closings could be delayed or not occur at all. in addition, the edition contract is for a fixed purchase price based upon the estimated total development costs for the hotel and we will not recover any development costs in excess of the agreed purchase price, so we will bear those development costs to the extent that they are higher than we anticipated when we agreed to the transaction. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management, and property management systems, our marriott rewards and the ritz-carlton rewards programs, and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis, and if we cannot do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com , priceline.com , booking.com , travelocity.com , and orbitz.com , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although marriott's look no further best rate guarantee has helped prevent customer preference shift to the intermediaries and greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google , bing , yahoo , and baidu to steer customers toward their websites (a practice that has been challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although marriott has successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries' websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. in addition, recent regulatory investigations outside of the u.s. challenge the legality under antitrust law of contract provisions that support programs such as marriott's look no further best rate guarantee, and we cannot assure you that the courts will ultimately uphold such provisions. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from marriott.com, or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. 19 table of contents failure to maintain the integrity of and protect internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, operational inefficiencies, damage to our reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines, or lawsuits . our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide services, including in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and various forms of electronic communications. we and third parties who provide services to us also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. the integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. if that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. the information, security, and privacy requirements imposed by governmental regulation and the requirements of the payment card industry are also increasingly demanding, in both the united states and other jurisdictions where we operate. our systems or our franchisees' systems may not be able to satisfy these changing requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data may materially impact our and our service providers' information systems and records. our reliance on computer, internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to such systems have increased significantly in recent years. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. breaches in the security of our information systems or those of our franchisees or service providers or other disruptions in data services could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws on marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email, online advertising, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of certain products. we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company's marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. any disruption in the functioning of our reservation system could adversely affect our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels that individuals make directly with us online, through our mobile app, or through our telephone call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, accuracy and efficiency of our reservation system are critical aspects of our business and are important considerations for hotel owners when choosing our brands. our business may suffer if we fail to maintain, upgrade, or prevent disruption to our reservation system. other risks changes in laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations, and policies in jurisdictions around the world, including those for financial reporting, taxes, healthcare, and the environment. changes to these laws, regulations, or policies, including those associated with health care, tax or financial reforms, could reduce our profits. we also anticipate that many of the jurisdictions where we do business will continue to review taxes and other revenue raising measures, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices or reduce our profits. in particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations, or official interpretations in ways that could significantly impact us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-u.s. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. for example, most u.s. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the united states is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than u.s. tax rates. if changes in tax laws, regulations, or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-u.s. income, our effective tax rate could increase and our profits could be reduced. if such increases resulted from our status as a u.s. company, those changes could place us at a disadvantage to our non-u.s. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we cannot recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our 20 table of contents businesses. any shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase our labor costs, which could reduce our profits. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a stockholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the stockholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes for mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, stock prices, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how we manage such exposure in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable and floating-rate debt. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities and fluctuations in stock price from our investment in a publicly traded company. changes in the price of the underlying stock can impact the fair value of our investment. we account for our investments as available-for-sale securities under the guidance for accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. at year-end 2014, our investments had a fair value of $121 million. we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-u.s. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. see footnote no. 2 , summary of significant accounting policies , for more information on derivative instruments. the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2014 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: 48 table of contents maturities by period ($ in millions) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets - maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. fixed-rate notes receivable $ 23 $ 72 $ 2 $ 3 $ 1 $ 38 $ 139 $ 138 average interest rate 2.61 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ 99 $ 103 $ 104 average interest rate 3.48 % liabilities - maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (324 ) $ (297 ) $ (301 ) $ (9 ) $ (606 ) $ (1,169 ) $ (2,706 ) $ (2,502 ) average interest rate 4.14 % floating-rate debt $ $ $ $ (1,072 ) $ $ $ (1,072 ) $ (1,072 ) average interest rate 0.43 % 49 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates or similar expressions. any number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on us or on our financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those we express in forward-looking statements contained in this report or in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel properties and home and apartment sharing services for customers. we operate in markets that contain many competitors. each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains, as well as home and apartment sharing services, in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services, including our loyalty programs and consumer-facing technology platforms and services, from those offered by others. if we cannot compete successfully in these areas, our operating margins could contract, our market share could decrease, and our earnings could decline. further, new lodging supply in individual markets could have a negative impact on the hotel industry and hamper our ability to increase room rates or occupancy in those markets. economic uncertainty could continue to impact our financial results and growth. weak economic conditions in europe and other parts of the world, the strength or continuation of recovery in countries that have experienced improved economic conditions, changes in oil prices and currency values, potential disruptions in the u.s. economy as a result of governmental action or inaction on the federal deficit, budget, and related issues, political instability in some areas, and the uncertainty over how long any of these conditions will continue, could continue to have a negative impact on the lodging industry. u.s. government travel is also a significant part of our business, and this aspect of our business may continue to suffer due to u.s. federal spending cuts and any further limitations that may result from congressional action or inaction. as a result of such current economic conditions and uncertainty, we continue to experience weakened demand for our hotel rooms in some markets. recent improvements in demand trends in other markets may not continue, and our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if the recovery stalls or conditions worsen. risks relating to the starwood combination we will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions, including the risk of litigation, while the starwood combination is pending that could cause disruption and may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees, hotel owners, hotel franchisees, suppliers or customers. uncertainty about the effect of the starwood combination on employees, hotel owners, hotel franchisees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on our business. although we intend to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties could impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the starwood combination is completed and for a period of time after that, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change our existing business relationships. the pursuit of the starwood combination and the preparation for the integration may place a significant burden on our management and internal resources. the diversion of management's attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could adversely affect our financial results. 12 table of contents in addition, the merger agreement restricts each company, without the other's consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the starwood combination closes or the merger agreement terminates. these restrictions could prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business before completion of the starwood combination or termination of the merger agreement. a number of lawsuits challenging the starwood combination were filed on behalf of purported shareholders of starwood, naming various combinations of starwood's directors, starwood, marriott, and others, as defendants. although marriott was dismissed from these lawsuits, an adverse ruling in any pending or future actions may prevent or delay the starwood combination from being completed. starwood's board of directors has also received demand letters from purported shareholders alleging that starwood's board of directors breached its fiduciary duties in connection with its approval of the starwood combination and demanding that starwood's board of directors conduct an investigation and take other actions. similar lawsuits could be filed and similar demand letters could in the future be received by starwood, marriott, and their respective boards of directors. one of the conditions to the closing of the starwood combination is the absence of any judgment, order, law or other legal restraint by a court or other governmental entity of competent jurisdiction that prevents the consummation of the starwood combination. accordingly, if any of the plaintiffs is successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the consummation of the starwood combination, then such injunction could prevent the starwood combination from becoming effective, or delay its becoming effective within the expected time frame. failure to complete the starwood combination could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. if we do not complete the starwood combination, our ongoing business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to several risks, including the following: being required to pay a termination fee under certain circumstances as provided in the merger agreement; having to pay certain costs relating to the starwood combination, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and other fees and expenses; our stock price could decline to the extent that the current market prices reflect a market assumption that the starwood combination will be completed; and having had our management focus on the starwood combination instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. if the starwood combination is not completed, we cannot assure you that these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial results and stock price. our ability to complete the starwood combination is subject to certain closing conditions and the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities which may impose conditions that could adversely affect us or cause the starwood combination to be abandoned. the merger agreement contains certain closing conditions, including, among others: the approval by the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of starwood common stock of the transactions; the approval by the holders of a majority of the votes cast at the special meeting of marriott shareholders in favor of the proposal to issue shares of marriott common stock to starwood shareholders; the absence of any judgment, order, law or other legal restraint by a court or other governmental entity of competent jurisdiction that prevents the consummation of the starwood combination; the approval for listing by nasdaq of the shares of marriott common stock issuable in the starwood combination; and the spin-off of starwood's vistana vacation ownership business ( vistana ), or, if the spin-off of vistana and vistana's subsequent merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of interval leisure group, inc. is not consummated, the completion of another spin-off, split-off or analogous distribution of vistana or the sale of vistana by starwood. we cannot assure you that the various closing conditions will be satisfied, or that any required conditions will not materially adversely affect the combined company after the starwood combination closes, or will not result in the abandonment or delay of the starwood combination. for instance, the consummation of the disposition of starwood's vistana business may be delayed or not occur, which could cause the starwood combination to be delayed or abandoned. in addition, before the starwood combination may be completed, various approvals and declarations of non-objection must be obtained from certain regulatory and governmental authorities, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott rodino antitrust improvements act and receipt of consents and approvals from the 13 table of contents european commission and various other governmental entities. these regulatory and governmental entities could impose conditions on the granting of such approvals. such conditions and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could have the effect of delaying closing of the starwood combination or of imposing additional costs or limitations on the combined company following the closing. the regulatory approvals may not be received at all, may not be received in a timely fashion, or may contain conditions. in addition, starwood's and marriott's respective obligations to complete the starwood combination are conditioned on the receipt of certain regulatory approvals or waiver by the other party of such condition. any delay in completing the starwood combination could reduce or eliminate the benefits that we expect to achieve. as discussed above, the starwood combination is subject to a number of conditions beyond starwood's and our control that could prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the completion of the combination. we cannot predict whether and when these conditions will be satisfied. any delay in completing the starwood combination could cause the combined company not to realize some or all of the synergies that we expect to achieve if the starwood combination is successfully completed within the expected time frame. the combined company may not be able to integrate successfully and many of the anticipated benefits of combining starwood and marriott may not be realized. we entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the starwood combination will result in various benefits, including, among other things, operating efficiencies. achieving those anticipated benefits is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether we can integrate the business of starwood in an efficient and effective manner. the integration process could also take longer than we anticipate and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the combined company's ability to achieve the benefits we anticipate. the combined company's resulting portfolio of approximately 30 brands could be challenging for us to maintain and grow, and the harmonization of our different reservations and other systems and business practices could be more difficult, disruptive, and time consuming than we anticipate. the combined company's results of operations could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company's operations that arise or are based on events or actions that occur before the starwood combination closes. the combined company may also have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. the integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties, and we cannot assure you that the benefits we anticipate will be realized at all or as quickly as we expect. if we don't achieve those benefits, our costs could increase, our expected net income could decrease, and the combined company's future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could suffer. we will incur substantial transaction costs in connection with the starwood combination. we expect to incur a number of non-recurring expenses both before and after completing the starwood combination, including in obtaining necessary consents and approvals and combining the operations of the two companies. these fees and costs will be substantial. we may also incur unanticipated costs in the integration of the businesses of starwood and marriott. although we expect that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. further, if the starwood combination is not completed, we would have to recognize certain of these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the combination. our shareholders will be diluted by the starwood combination. the starwood combination will dilute the ownership position of our current shareholders. we currently estimate that, upon completion of the combination, our shareholders before the merger will own approximately 61% and former starwood shareholders will own approximately 39% of the combined company's outstanding common stock. because of this, our current shareholders may have less influence on the management and policies of the combined company than they now have on us. our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the completion of the starwood combination. following the completion of the starwood combination, the size of the business of the combined company will increase significantly beyond the current size of our business. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits from the combination that we currently anticipate. the combined company may not be able to retain marriott and/or starwood personnel successfully after the starwood combination is completed. the success of the starwood combination will depend in part on the combined company's ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees that marriott and starwood currently employ. it is possible that these employees may decide not to remain with marriott or starwood, as applicable, while the starwood combination is pending or 14 table of contents with the combined company after the combination is consummated. if key employees terminate their employment, or if the combined company cannot maintain a sufficient number of employees to maintain effective operations, the combined company's business activities could be adversely affected and management's attention could be diverted from successfully integrating starwood to hiring suitable replacements, all of which may cause the combined company's business to suffer. in addition, we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave either company, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms. risks relating to our business operational risks premature termination of our management or franchise agreements could hurt our financial performance. our hotel management and franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which we fail or elect not to cure. in addition, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, including us (or have interpreted hotel management agreements as personal services contracts ). this means, among other things, that property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements provide otherwise, and some courts have upheld such assertions about our management agreements and may do so in the future. in addition, some management and franchise agreements may be terminated, or property owners may attempt to terminate such agreements, in connection with the starwood combination. if terminations occur for these or other reasons, we may need to enforce our right to damages for breach of contract and related claims, which may cause us to incur significant legal fees and expenses. any damages we ultimately collect could be less than the projected future value of the fees and other amounts we would have otherwise collected under the management agreement. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. our lodging operations are subject to global, regional, and national conditions. because we conduct our business on a global platform, changes in global and regional economies impact our activities. in recent years, decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism have hurt our business. our future performance could be similarly affected by the economic environment in each of our operating regions, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and any future incidents in those regions. the growing significance of our operations outside of the united states, particularly following the starwood combination, makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits, disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. we currently operate or franchise hotels and resorts in 87 countries, and our operations outside the united states represented approximately 19 percent of our revenues in 2015 . in addition, starwood reported that as of september 30, 2015 it operated or franchised hotels and resorts in approximately 100 countries, and its operations outside the united states (including operations associated with starwood's vistana vacation ownership business which it is to spin off prior to our combination) represented a majority of starwood's revenues in both 2014 and the nine months ending september 30, 2015. we expect that our international revenues will continue to grow, particularly following the starwood combination. as a result, we are increasingly exposed to the challenges and risks of doing business outside the united states, many of which are outside of our control, and which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions, otherwise disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. these challenges include: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and government policies that may impact our operations, such as foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with u.s. and foreign laws that affect the activities of companies abroad, such as competition laws, currency regulations, and other laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax effective manner; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest in the middle east and elsewhere, acts of terrorism, or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and (7) currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may impact the results and cash flows of our international operations. any failure by our international operations to comply with anti-corruption laws or trade sanctions could increase our costs, reduce our profits, limit our growth, harm our reputation, or subject us to broader liability. we are subject to restrictions imposed by the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws and regulations of other countries applicable to our operations, such as the uk bribery act. anti-corruption laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons in order to receive or retain business. the compliance programs, internal controls and policies we maintain and enforce to promote compliance with applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws may not prevent our associates, contractors or agents from acting in ways prohibited by these 15 table of contents laws and regulations. we are also subject to trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control and the u.s. department of commerce. our compliance programs and internal controls also may not prevent conduct that is prohibited under these rules. the united states may impose additional sanctions at any time against any country in which or with whom we do business. depending on the nature of the sanctions imposed, our operations in the relevant country could be restricted or otherwise adversely affected. any violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations or trade sanctions could result in significant civil and criminal penalties, reduce our profits, disrupt our business or damage our reputation. in addition, an imposition of further restrictions in these areas could increase our cost of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the united states. accordingly, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars we receive from foreign currency revenues. we are also exposed to currency translation risk because the results of our business outside of the u.s. are generally reported in local currency, which we then translate to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar affect the amounts we record for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our financial results. we expect that our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow as the relative contribution of our non-u.s. operations increases. our efforts to mitigate some of our foreign currency exposure by entering into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions to reduce exposures to some of the principal currencies in which we receive management and franchise fees may not be successful. in this regard, these hedging agreements do not cover all currencies in which we do business, do not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely for the currencies that they do cover, and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. some of our management agreements and related contracts require us to make payments to owners if the hotels do not achieve specified levels of operating profit. some of our contracts with hotel owners require that we fund shortfalls if the hotels do not attain specified levels of operating profit. we may not be able to recover any fundings of such performance guarantees, which could lower our profits and reduce our cash flows. our new programs and new branded products may not be successful. we cannot assure you that recently launched, newly acquired, or recently announced brands, such as edition, ac hotels by marriott in the americas, protea hotels, moxy hotels, and delta hotels and resorts, and those expected to be acquired as a result of the starwood combination, or any other new programs or products we may launch in the future will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other customers. we also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing or acquiring the brands or any new programs or products, or that the brands or any new programs or products will be successful. in addition, some of our new brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with one or more third parties, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters, such as hurricane sandy in the northeastern united states, the earthquake and tsunami in japan, and man-made disasters in recent years as well as the potential spread of contagious diseases such as mers (middle east respiratory syndrome), zika virus, and ebola in locations where we own, manage, or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers, could cause a decline in business or leisure travel and reduce demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, or civil strife, such as recent events in ukraine and russia, the middle east, and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we can obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. disagreements with owners of hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or may delay implementation of product or service initiatives. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product or service initiatives and the timing and amount of capital investments. such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are weaker. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners, but we are not always able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in a significant adverse judgment, settlement, or court 16 table of contents order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands could have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. events that may be beyond our control could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. if the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be affected. actions by our franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our image and reputation. we franchise and license many of our brand names and trademarks to third parties in connection with lodging, timeshare, residential services, and our credit card programs. under the terms of their agreements with us, our franchisees and licensees interact directly with customers and other third parties under our brand and trade names. if these franchisees or licensees fail to maintain or act in accordance with applicable brand standards; experience operational problems, including any data breach involving customer information; or project a brand image inconsistent with ours, our image and reputation could suffer. although our franchise and license agreements provide us with recourse and remedies in the event of a breach by the franchisee or licensee, including termination of the agreements under certain circumstances, pursuing any such recourse, remedy, or termination could be expensive and time consuming . in addition, we cannot assure you that a court would ultimately enforce our contractual termination rights in every instance. damage to, or losses involving, properties that we own, manage, or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our managed, leased, and owned properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary, and require our franchisees to maintain similar levels of insurance. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we or our franchisees can obtain, or our or their ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of our information systems, may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we and our franchisees may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we or our franchisees carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of any lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of any capital that we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations for the property. development and financing risks while w e are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, our hotel owners depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels, and our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both we and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we can exert little control. the difficulty of obtaining financing on attractive terms may be constrained by the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. in addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we develop new hotel and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as 17 table of contents demonstrated by the impairment charges that we recorded in 2015 and 2014 in connection with our development and construction of three edition hotels and residences, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) continued weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to decreases in demand for hotel and residential properties, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for any projects that we do not pursue to completion. development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create added risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies, or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures, or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. such disputes may also be more likely in difficult business environments. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties associated with our lodging properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, directly or through noncontrolling interests and/or licensing agreements, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including residences and condominiums under our the ritz-carlton, edition, jw marriott, autograph collection, and marriott brand names and trademarks. such projects pose further risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging business, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: (1) weakness in residential real estate and demand generally may reduce our profits and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; (2) increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and (3) residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. some hotel openings in our existing development pipeline and approved projects may be delayed or not result in new hotels, which could adversely affect our growth prospects. we report a significant number of hotels in our development pipeline, including hotels under construction and under signed contracts, as well as hotels approved for development but not yet under signed contracts. the eventual opening of such pipeline hotels and, in particular, the hotels approved for development that are not yet under contract, is subject to numerous risks, including in some cases the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing or governmental or regulatory approvals. accordingly, we cannot assure you that our development pipeline, and in particular hotels not yet under contract, will result in new hotels that enter our system, or that those hotels will open when we anticipate. if we incur losses on loans or loan guarantees that we have made to third parties, our profits could decline. at times, we make loans for hotel development or renovation expenditures in connection with entering into or amending management or franchise agreements. from time to time we also provide third-party lenders financial guarantees for the timely repayment of all or a portion of debt related to hotels that we manage or franchise, generally subject to an obligation that the owner reimburse us for any fundings. we could suffer losses if hotel owners or franchisees default on loans that we provide or fail to reimburse us for loan guarantees that we have funded. if owners of hotels that we manage or franchise cannot repay or refinance mortgage loans secured by their properties, our revenues and profits could decrease and our business could be harmed. the owners of many of our managed or franchised properties have pledged their hotels as collateral for mortgage loans that they entered into when those properties were purchased or refinanced. if those owners cannot repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, the lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt, and repossess the property. such sales or repossessions could, in some cases, result in the termination of our management or franchise agreements and eliminate our anticipated income and cash flows, which could negatively affect our results of operations. planned transactions we announce may be delayed, not occur at all, or involve unanticipated costs. from time to time we announce transactions that we expect will close at a future date, such as our anticipated acquisition of starwood hotels &amp; 18 table of contents resorts. if the conditions to consummating these transactions are neither satisfied nor waived by the time we expect, the closings could be delayed or not occur at all. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management, and property management systems, our marriott rewards and the ritz-carlton rewards programs, and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis, and if we cannot do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com , priceline.com , booking.com , travelocity.com , and orbitz.com , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although marriott's look no further best rate guarantee has helped prevent customer preference shift to the intermediaries and greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google , bing , yahoo , and baidu to steer customers toward their websites (a practice that has been challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although marriott has successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries' websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from marriott.com, or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. in addition, if we fail to reach satisfactory agreements with intermediaries as our contracts with them come up for periodic renewal, our hotels might no longer appear on their websites and we could lose business as a result. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of internal and customer data. our businesses process, use, and transmit large volumes of internal employee and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personal information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties, including our owners, franchisees and licensees, as well as our service providers, in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and various forms of electronic communications. the integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to our business. if that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we, as well as our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers, will adequately protect their personal information. the information, security, and privacy requirements imposed by governmental regulation and the requirements of the payment card industry are also increasingly demanding, in both the united states and other jurisdictions where we operate. our systems and the systems maintained or used by our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers may not be able to satisfy these changing requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data may materially impact our, including our owners', franchisees', licensees', or service providers', information systems and records. our reliance on computer, internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to such systems have increased significantly in recent years. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. breaches in the security of our information systems or those of our owners, franchisees, licensees, or service providers or other disruptions in data services could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. in addition, although we carry cyber/privacy liability insurance that is designed to protect us against certain losses related to cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in connection with cyber-attacks, security breaches, and other related breaches. changes in privacy law could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we are subject to numerous laws, regulations, and contractual obligations designed to protect personal information, including foreign data protection laws, various u.s. federal and state laws, and credit card industry security standards and other 19 table of contents applicable information privacy and security standards. compliance with changes in applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs. additionally, we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws on marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email, online advertising, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of certain products. we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company's marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. any disruption in the functioning of our reservation system, such as in connection with the starwood combination, could adversely affect our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels that individuals make directly with us online, through our mobile app, or through our telephone call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, accuracy and efficiency of our reservation system are critical aspects of our business and are important considerations for hotel owners when choosing our brands. our business may suffer if we fail to maintain, upgrade, or prevent disruption to our reservation system. in addition, the risk of disruption in the functioning of our global reservation system could increase in connection with the system integration that we anticipate undertaking following consummation of the starwood combination. disruptions in or changes to our reservation system could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. other risks changes in laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations, and policies in jurisdictions around the world, including those for financial reporting, taxes, healthcare, and the environment. changes to these laws, regulations, or policies, including those associated with health care, tax or financial reforms, could reduce our profits. we also anticipate that many of the jurisdictions where we do business will continue to review taxes and other revenue raising measures, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices or reduce our profits. in particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations, or official interpretations in ways that could significantly impact us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-u.s. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. for example, most u.s. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the united states is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than u.s. tax rates. if changes in tax laws, regulations, or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-u.s. income, our effective tax rate could increase and our profits could be reduced. if such increases resulted from our status as a u.s. company, those changes could place us at a disadvantage to our non-u.s. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we cannot recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. any shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase our labor costs, which could reduce our profits. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a shareholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the shareholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes for mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without shareholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a shareholder rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, stock prices, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how we manage such exposure in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable and floating-rate debt. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. 46 table of contents we are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities and fluctuations in stock price from our investment in a publicly traded company. changes in the price of the underlying stock can impact the fair value of our investment. we account for our investments as available-for-sale securities under the guidance for accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. at year-end 2015 , our investments had a fair value of $37 million . we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-u.s. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. see footnote no. 2 , summary of significant accounting policies , for more information on derivative instruments. the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2015 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets - maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. fixed-rate notes receivable $ 2 $ 2 $ 19 $ 1 $ 2 $ 39 $ 65 $ 65 average interest rate 2.09 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 4 $ 1 $ 41 $ 4 $ $ 106 $ 156 $ 151 average interest rate 5.73 % liabilities - maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (299 ) $ (301 ) $ (9 ) $ (605 ) $ (357 ) $ (1,593 ) $ (3,164 ) $ (2,943 ) average interest rate 3.68 % floating-rate debt $ $ $ (938 ) $ $ $ $ (938 ) $ (938 ) average interest rate 0.62 % 47 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by, or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates or similar expressions. any number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on us or on our financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those we express in forward-looking statements contained in this report or in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel properties and home and apartment sharing services for customers. we operate in markets that contain many competitors. each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains, as well as home and apartment sharing services, in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services, including our loyalty programs and consumer-facing technology platforms and services, from those offered by others. if we cannot compete successfully in these areas, our operating margins could contract, our market share could decrease, and our earnings could decline. further, new lodging supply in individual markets could have a negative impact on the hotel industry and hamper our ability to increase room rates or occupancy in those markets. economic uncertainty could continue to impact our financial results and growth. weak economic conditions in some parts of the world, the strength or continuation of recovery in countries that have experienced improved economic conditions, changes in oil prices and currency values, potential disruptions in the u.s. economy that might result from the new u.s. administration's policies in such areas as trade, immigration, healthcare, and related issues, political instability in some areas, and the uncertainty over how long any of these conditions will continue, could continue to have a negative impact on the lodging industry. u.s. government travel is also a significant part of our business, and this aspect of our business may continue to suffer due to u.s. federal spending cuts or government hiring freezes and any further limitations that may result from presidential or congressional action or inaction. as a result of such current economic conditions and uncertainty, we continue to experience weakened demand for our hotel rooms in some markets. recent improvements in demand trends in other markets may not continue, and our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if the recovery stalls or conditions worsen. risks relating to our integration of starwood the diversion of resources and management's attention to the integration of starwood could adversely affect our day-to-day business. the integration of starwood places a significant burden on our management and internal resources. the diversion of management's attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could adversely affect our financial results. we may not be able to integrate starwood successfully and many of the anticipated benefits of combining starwood and marriott may not be realized. we decided to acquire starwood with the expectation that the starwood combination will result in various benefits, including, among other things, operating efficiencies. achieving those anticipated benefits is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether we can integrate the business of starwood in an efficient and effective manner, and we cannot assure you that those benefits will be realized at all or as quickly as we expect. if we do not achieve those benefits, our costs could increase, our expected net income could decrease, and our future business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects could suffer. 11 table of contents the integration process could take longer than we anticipate and involve unanticipated costs. disruptions of each company's ongoing businesses, processes, and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies, and compensation arrangements could adversely affect the combined company. we may also have difficulty addressing differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies, and in harmonizing our different reservations and other systems and business practices. although we expect that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will over time offset the substantial incremental transaction and merger-related costs and charges we incurred in connection with the starwood combination, we may not achieve this net benefit in the near term, or at all. our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations. with completion of the starwood combination, the size of our business has increased significantly. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which poses substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, and other benefits from the combination that we currently anticipate. we may not be able to retain legacy-starwood personnel successfully. the success of the starwood combination will depend in part on our ability to retain the talents and dedication of key legacy-starwood employees. it remains possible that these employees may decide not to remain with us. if key legacy-starwood employees who we would like to retain terminate their employment, the loss of institutional knowledge and key business relationships could cause our business to suffer. risks relating to our business operational risks premature termination of our management or franchise agreements could hurt our financial performance. our hotel management and franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which we fail or elect not to cure. in addition, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, including us (or have interpreted hotel management agreements as personal services contracts ). this means, among other things, that property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements provide otherwise, and some courts have upheld such assertions about our management agreements and may do so in the future. in addition, some management and franchise agreements may be terminated, or property owners may attempt to terminate such agreements, in connection with the starwood combination. if terminations occur for these or other reasons, we may need to enforce our right to damages for breach of contract and related claims, which may cause us to incur significant legal fees and expenses. any damages we ultimately collect could be less than the projected future value of the fees and other amounts we would have otherwise collected under the management agreement. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. our lodging operations are subject to global, regional, and national conditions. because we conduct our business on a global platform, changes in global and regional economies impact our activities. in recent years, decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism have hurt our business. our future performance could be similarly affected by the economic environment in each of our operating regions, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and any future incidents or changes in those regions. the growing significance of our operations outside of the united states, including as a result of the starwood combination, makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits, disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. at year-end 2016, we operated or franchised hotels and resorts in 122 countries and territories. with the acquisition of starwood, the hotels we operate or franchise outside of the united states represented more than 36 percent of the rooms in our system at year-end 2016 . we expect that our international operations, and resulting revenues, will continue to grow. as a result, we are increasingly exposed to the challenges and risks of doing business outside the united states, many of which are outside of our control, and which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions, otherwise disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. these challenges include: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and government policies that may impact our operations, such as foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with u.s. and foreign laws that affect the activities of companies abroad, such as competition laws, currency regulations, and other laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax effective manner, or in some cases at all due to foreign exchange restrictions; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and 12 table of contents intellectual property rights under local laws; (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest in the middle east and elsewhere, acts of terrorism, or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and (7) currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may impact the results and cash flows of our international operations. any failure by our international operations to comply with anti-corruption laws or trade sanctions could increase our costs, reduce our profits, limit our growth, harm our reputation, or subject us to broader liability. we are subject to restrictions imposed by the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and anti-corruption laws and regulations of other countries applicable to our operations, such as the uk bribery act. anti-corruption laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons in order to receive or retain business. these laws also require us to maintain adequate internal controls and accurate books and records. as a result of the starwood combination, we now have more properties in countries outside of the u.s., including in many parts of the world where corruption is common, and our compliance with anti-corruption laws may potentially conflict with local customs and practices. the compliance programs, internal controls and policies we and, prior to the merger date, starwood, maintain and enforce to promote compliance with applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws may not prevent our associates, contractors or agents from acting in ways prohibited by these laws and regulations. we are also subject to trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control and the u.s. department of commerce. our compliance programs and internal controls also may not prevent conduct that is prohibited under these rules. the united states may impose additional sanctions at any time against any country in which or with whom we do business. depending on the nature of the sanctions imposed, our operations in the relevant country could be restricted or otherwise adversely affected. any violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations or trade sanctions could result in significant civil and criminal penalties, reduce our profits, disrupt or have a material adverse effect on our business, damage our reputation, or result in lawsuits being brought against the company or its officers or directors. in addition, the operation of these laws or an imposition of further restrictions in these areas could increase our cost of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities, or cease operations in certain countries, that would otherwise support growth. in connection with the starwood combination, we are currently assessing various regulatory compliance matters at several foreign legacy-starwood locations, including compliance with the fcpa. the results of this assessment may give rise to contingencies that could require us to record balance sheet liabilities or accrue expenses, the amounts of which we are not able to currently estimate. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the united states. accordingly, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars we receive from foreign currency revenues. we are also exposed to currency translation risk because the results of our business outside of the u.s. are generally reported in local currency, which we then translate to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar affect the amounts we record for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our financial results. we expect that our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow as the relative contribution of our non-u.s. operations increases. our efforts to mitigate some of our foreign currency exposure by entering into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions to reduce exposures to some of the principal currencies in which we receive management and franchise fees may not be successful. in this regard, these hedging agreements do not cover all currencies in which we do business, do not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely for the currencies that they do cover, and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. some of our management agreements and related contracts require us to make payments to owners if the hotels do not achieve specified levels of operating profit. some of our contracts with hotel owners require that we fund shortfalls if the hotels do not attain specified levels of operating profit. we may not be able to recover any fundings of such performance guarantees, which could lower our profits and reduce our cash flows. our new programs and new branded products may not be successful. we cannot assure you that recently launched, newly acquired, or recently announced brands, such as edition, ac hotels by marriott in the americas, protea hotels, moxy hotels, delta hotels, and those we acquired as a result of the starwood combination, or any other new programs or products we may launch in the future, will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other customers. we also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing or acquiring the brands or any new programs or products, or that the brands or any new programs or products will be successful. in addition, some of our new or newly acquired brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with one or more third parties, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. 13 table of contents risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters, such as hurricane sandy in the northeastern united states, the earthquake and tsunami in japan, and man-made disasters in recent years as well as the potential spread of contagious diseases such as mers (middle east respiratory syndrome), zika virus, and ebola in locations where we own, manage, or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers, could cause a decline in business or leisure travel and reduce demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, or civil strife, such as recent events in fort lauderdale, orlando, charlotte, berlin, brussels, paris, turkey, ukraine and russia, the middle east, and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we can obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. disagreements with owners of hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or may delay implementation of product or service initiatives. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product, service or systems initiatives, the timing and amount of capital investments, and reimbursement for certain system initiatives and costs. such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are weaker. we seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners, but we are not always able to do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in a significant adverse judgment, settlement, or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands could have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. events that may be beyond our control could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. if the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be affected. if our brands, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant non-cash charges to earnings. as of december 31, 2016 , we had $16.9 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets, including $6.5 billion attributable to the legacy-starwood brands (based on the preliminary purchase accounting for the starwood combination), a significant increase over the $2.4 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets we had as of december 31, 2015 . the amount of goodwill acquired in the starwood combination could increase over the year following the acquisition if we determine that the value of physical assets acquired is less than, or the amount of liabilities assumed (including under starwood's guest loyalty program) is greater than, we preliminarily estimated. we review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. estimated fair values of our brands or reporting units could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in customers' perception of and the reputation of the legacy-starwood brands, or changes in interest rates, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. actions by our franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our image and reputation. we franchise and license many of our brand names and trademarks to third parties in connection with lodging, timeshare, residential services, and our credit card programs. under the terms of their agreements with us, our franchisees and licensees interact directly with customers and other third parties under our brand and trade names. if these franchisees or licensees fail to maintain or act in accordance with applicable brand standards; experience operational problems, including any data breach involving customer information; or project a brand image inconsistent with ours, our image and reputation could suffer. although our franchise and license agreements provide us with recourse and remedies in the event of a breach by the franchisee or licensee, including termination of the agreements under certain circumstances, pursuing any such recourse, remedy, or termination could be expensive and time consuming . in addition, we cannot assure you that a court would ultimately enforce our contractual termination rights in every instance. damage to, or losses involving, properties that we own, manage, or franchise may not be covered by insurance. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our managed, leased, and owned properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary, and require our franchisees to maintain similar levels of insurance. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we or our franchisees can obtain, or our or their ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as 14 table of contents earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of our information systems, may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we and our franchisees may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we or our franchisees carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of any lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of any capital that we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations for the property. development and financing risks while w e are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, our hotel owners depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels, and our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. in order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both we and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we can exert little control. the difficulty of obtaining financing on attractive terms may be constrained by the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. in addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we develop new hotel and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as demonstrated by the impairment charges that we recorded in 2015 and 2014 in connection with our development and construction of three edition hotels and residences, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) continued weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to decreases in demand for hotel and residential properties, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for any projects that we do not pursue to completion. our owned properties and other real estate investments subject us to numerous risks . although we had relatively few owned and leased properties at the end of 2016, we acquired significant numbers of those properties as part of the starwood combination, and such properties are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property. although we intend to sell most of our owned and leased properties over the next two years, equity real estate investments can be difficult to sell quickly, and we may not be able to do so at prices we find acceptable or at all. moreover, the investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. a variety of other factors also affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels, and the availability of financing. for example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and/or time-consuming to develop real property or expand, modify, or renovate hotels. when interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding, or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. sometimes this taking is for less 15 table of contents compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. despite our asset-light strategy, our real estate properties could be impacted by any of these factors, resulting in a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. if our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including needed capital expenditures, our income will be adversely affected. development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties which we have entered into or acquired as part of the starwood combination generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create added risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies, or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. such disputes may also be more likely in difficult business environments. investing through partnerships or joint ventures decreases our ability to manage risk. in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, starwood, and to the lesser extent marriott, has from time to time invested, and we may continue to invest, as a co-venturer. such arrangements often have shared control over the operation of the assets. therefore, such investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations. should a venture partner become bankrupt we could become liable for our partner's share of venture's liabilities. also, our venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our economic or business interests or goals, may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, or may make requests contrary to our policies or objectives. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our venture partners and, alternatively, our venture partners could take actions binding on the venture or partnership without our consent. therefore, actions by a co-venturer might subject the assets owned by the venture or partnership to additional risk. we cannot assure you that our investments through partnerships or joint ventures will be successful despite these risks. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties associated with our lodging properties or brands may reduce our profits. in certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, directly or through noncontrolling interests and/or licensing agreements, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including residences and condominiums under our jw marriott, the ritz-carlton, the ritz-carlton reserve, w hotels, the luxury collection, st. regis, edition, bulgari hotels &amp; resorts, marriott hotels, sheraton, westin, and autograph collection hotels brand names and trademarks. such projects pose further risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging business, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: (1) weakness in residential real estate and demand generally may reduce our profits and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; (2) increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and (3) residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. some hotel openings in our existing development pipeline and approved projects may be delayed or not result in new hotels, which could adversely affect our growth prospects. we report a significant number of hotels in our development pipeline, including hotels under construction and under signed contracts, as well as hotels approved for development but not yet under signed contracts. the eventual opening of such pipeline hotels and, in particular, the hotels approved for development that are not yet under contract, is subject to numerous risks, including in some cases the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing or governmental or regulatory approvals. accordingly, we cannot assure you that our development pipeline, and in particular hotels not yet under contract, will result in new hotels that enter our system, or that those hotels will open when we anticipate. if we incur losses on loans or loan guarantees that we have made to third parties, our profits could decline. at times, we make loans for hotel development or renovation expenditures in connection with entering into or amending management or franchise agreements. from time to time we also provide third-party lenders financial guarantees for the timely repayment of all or a portion of debt related to hotels that we manage or franchise, generally subject to an obligation that the owner reimburse us for any fundings. we could suffer losses if hotel owners or franchisees default on loans that we provide or fail to reimburse us for loan guarantees that we have funded. if owners of hotels that we manage or franchise cannot repay or refinance mortgage loans secured by their properties, our revenues and profits could decrease and our business could be harmed. the owners of many of our managed or franchised properties have pledged their hotels as collateral for mortgage loans that they entered into when those properties were purchased or refinanced. if those owners cannot repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, the 16 table of contents lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt, and repossess the property. such sales or repossessions could, in some cases, result in the termination of our management or franchise agreements and eliminate our anticipated income and cash flows, which could negatively affect our results of operations. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management, and property management systems, our loyalty programs , and technologies we make available to our guests. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis, and if we cannot do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com , priceline.com , booking.com , travelocity.com , and orbitz.com , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although marriott's and starwood's respective best rate guarantee programs have helped prevent customer preference shift to the intermediaries and greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google , bing , yahoo , and baidu to steer customers toward their websites (a practice that has been challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although marriott has successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries' websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from marriott and starwood direct online channels, or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. in addition, if we fail to reach satisfactory agreements with intermediaries as our contracts with them come up for periodic renewal, our hotels might no longer appear on their websites and we could lose business as a result. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of internal and customer data. our businesses process, use, and transmit large volumes of internal employee and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personal information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties, including our owners, franchisees and licensees, as well as our service providers, in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and various forms of electronic communications. the integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to our business. if that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we, as well as our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers, will adequately protect their personal information. the information, security, and privacy requirements imposed by governmental regulation and the requirements of the payment card industry are also increasingly demanding, in both the united states and other jurisdictions where we operate. our systems and the systems maintained or used by our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers may not be able to satisfy these changing requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data may materially impact our, including our owners', franchisees', licensees', or service providers', information systems and records. our reliance on computer, internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to such systems have increased significantly in recent years. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. breaches in the security of our information systems or those of our owners, franchisees, licensees, or service providers or other disruptions in data services could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. in addition, although we carry cyber/privacy liability insurance that is designed to protect us against certain losses related to cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in connection with cyber-attacks, security breaches, and other related breaches. furthermore, in the future such insurance may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. changes in privacy law could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we are subject to numerous laws, regulations, and contractual obligations designed to protect personal information, 17 table of contents including foreign data protection laws, various u.s. federal and state laws, and credit card industry security standards and other applicable information privacy and security standards. compliance with changes in applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs. additionally, we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws on marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email, online advertising, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of certain products. we also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company's marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. any disruption in the functioning of our reservation system, such as in connection with our integration of starwood, could adversely affect our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels that individuals make directly with us online, through our mobile app, or through our telephone call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel websites, and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, accuracy and efficiency of our reservation system are critical aspects of our business and are important considerations for hotel owners when choosing our brands. our business may suffer if we fail to maintain, upgrade, or prevent disruption to our reservation system. in addition, the risk of disruption in the functioning of our global reservation system could increase in connection with the system integration that we anticipate undertaking as part of our integration of starwood. disruptions in or changes to our reservation system could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. other risks changes in laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations, and policies in jurisdictions around the world, including those for financial reporting, taxes, healthcare, and the environment. changes to these laws, regulations, or policies, including those associated with health care, tax or financial reforms, could reduce our profits. we also anticipate that many of the jurisdictions where we do business will continue to review taxes and other revenue raising measures, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices or reduce our profits. in particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations, or official interpretations in ways that could significantly impact us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-u.s. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. for example, most u.s. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the united states is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than u.s. tax rates. if changes in tax laws, regulations, or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-u.s. income, our effective tax rate could increase and our profits could be reduced. if such increases resulted from our status as a u.s. company, those changes could place us at a disadvantage to our non-u.s. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we cannot recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. any shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase our labor costs, which could reduce our profits. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a shareholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the shareholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes for mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without shareholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a shareholder rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, stock prices, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how we manage such exposure in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable and floating-rate debt. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities and fluctuations in stock price from our investment in a publicly traded company. changes in the price of the underlying stock can impact the fair value of our investment. we account for our investments as available-for-sale securities under the guidance for accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-u.s. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. see footnote 2 summary of significant accounting policies for more information on derivative instruments. the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2016 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets - maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. fixed-rate notes receivable $ 2 $ 30 $ 16 $ 12 $ 11 $ 61 $ 132 $ 132 average interest rate 3.57 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 1 $ 47 $ 4 $ 5 $ 37 $ 22 $ 116 $ 102 average interest rate 3.37 % liabilities - maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (304 ) $ (405 ) $ (844 ) $ (358 ) $ (853 ) $ (3,251 ) $ (6,015 ) $ (5,975 ) average interest rate 3.67 % floating-rate debt $ $ $ (7 ) $ $ (2,311 ) $ $ (2,318 ) $ (2,318 ) average interest rate 1.49 % 45 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by, or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, or similar expressions. any number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this 10 table of contents report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether due to new information, future developments, or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on us or on our financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those we express in forward-looking statements contained in this report or in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel properties and home and apartment sharing services for guests. we operate in markets that contain many competitors. each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains and home and apartment sharing services in national and international venues, and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services, including our loyalty programs and consumer-facing technology platforms and services, from those offered by others. if we cannot compete successfully in these areas, our operating margins could contract, our market share could decrease, and our earnings could decline. further, new lodging supply in individual markets could have a negative impact on the hotel industry and hamper our ability to increase room rates or occupancy in those markets. economic downturns could impact our financial results and growth. weak economic conditions in one or more parts of the world, changes in oil prices and currency values, potential disruptions in the u.s. economy generally and the travel business in particular that might result from the u.s. administration's changing policies in such areas as trade, travel, immigration, healthcare, and related issues, political instability in some areas, and the uncertainty over how long any of these conditions could continue, could have a negative impact on the lodging industry. u.s. government travel is also a significant part of our business, and this aspect of our business could suffer due to u.s. federal spending cuts, or government hiring restrictions and any further limitations that may result from presidential or congressional action or inaction. because of such uncertainty, we continue to experience weakened demand for our hotel rooms in some markets. our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if economic or these other conditions worsen. risks relating to our integration of starwood the continued diversion of resources and management's attention to the integration of starwood could still adversely affect our day-to-day business. while the integration of starwood is well underway, it places a significant burden on our management and internal resources and will continue to do so for some time. the diversion of management's attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties we encounter as the integration process continues could adversely affect our financial results. some of the anticipated benefits of combining starwood and marriott may still not be realized. we decided to acquire starwood with the expectation that the starwood combination will result in various benefits, including, among other things, operating efficiencies. although we have already achieved some of those anticipated benefits, others remain subject to several uncertainties, including whether we can continue to effectively and efficiently integrate the starwood business and whether, and on what terms, we can reach agreement with the timeshare companies with whom we do business to allow us to move to a single unified reservation system and loyalty platform. integration could also take longer than we anticipate and involve unexpected costs. disruptions of each legacy company's ongoing businesses, processes, and systems could adversely affect the combined company. we also may still encounter difficulties harmonizing our different reservations and other systems and business practices as the integration process continues. because of these or other factors, we cannot assure you when or that we will be able to fully realize additional benefits from the starwood combination in the form of eliminating duplicative costs, or achieving other operating efficiencies, cost savings, or benefits. risks relating to our business operational risks premature termination of our management or franchise agreements could hurt our financial performance. our hotel management and franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which we fail or elect not to cure. some courts have also applied agency law principles and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, including us (or have 11 table of contents interpreted hotel management agreements to be personal services contracts ). this means, among other things, that property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements provide otherwise, and some courts have upheld such assertions about our management agreements and may do so in the future. if terminations occur for these or other reasons, we may need to enforce our right to damages for breach of contract and related claims, which may cause us to incur significant legal fees and expenses. any damages we ultimately collect could be less than the projected future value of the fees and other amounts we would have otherwise collected under the management agreement. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. our lodging operations are subject to global, regional, and national conditions. because we conduct our business on a global platform, changes in global and regional economies impact our activities. in recent years, decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions and the heightened travel security measures resulting from the threat of further terrorism have hurt our business. our future performance could be similarly affected by the economic and political environment in each of our operating regions, the resulting unknown pace of both business and leisure travel, and any future incidents or changes in those regions. the growing significance of our operations outside of the u.s. makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits, disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. at year-end 2017 , approximately 36 percent of the rooms in our system were located outside of the u.s. and its territories. we expect that our international operations, and resulting revenues, will continue to grow. this increasingly exposes us to the challenges and risks of doing business outside the u.s., many of which are outside of our control, and which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions, disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. these challenges include: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and government policies that may impact our operations, such as foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with u.s. and foreign laws that affect the activities of companies abroad, such as competition laws, cybersecurity and privacy laws, currency regulations, and other laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (4) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (5) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism, or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and (6) currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may impact the results and cash flows of our international operations. any failure by our international operations to comply with anti-corruption laws or trade sanctions could increase our costs, reduce our profits, limit our growth, harm our reputation, or subject us to broader liability. we are subject to restrictions imposed by the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and anti-corruption laws and regulations of other countries applicable to our operations, such as the uk bribery act. anti-corruption laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons to receive or retain business. these laws also require us to maintain adequate internal controls and accurate books and records. due to the starwood combination, we now have more properties in countries outside of the u.s., including in many parts of the world where corruption is common, and our compliance with anti-corruption laws may potentially conflict with local customs and practices. the compliance programs, internal controls and policies we and, prior to the merger date, starwood, maintain and enforce to promote compliance with applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws may not prevent our associates, contractors or agents from acting in ways prohibited by these laws and regulations. we are also subject to trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control and the u.s. department of commerce. our compliance programs and internal controls also may not prevent conduct that is prohibited under these rules. the u.s. may impose additional sanctions at any time against any country in which or with whom we do business. depending on the nature of the sanctions imposed, our operations in the relevant country could be restricted or otherwise adversely affected. any violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations or trade sanctions could result in significant civil and criminal penalties, reduce our profits, disrupt or have a material adverse effect on our business, damage our reputation, or result in lawsuits being brought against the company or its officers or directors. in addition, the operation of these laws or an imposition of further restrictions in these areas could increase our cost of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities, or cease operations in certain countries, that would otherwise support growth. in connection with the starwood combination, we are currently assessing various regulatory compliance matters at several foreign legacy-starwood locations, including compliance with the u.s. fcpa. the results of this assessment may give rise to contingencies that could require us to accrue expenses, the amounts of which we are not able to currently estimate. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. accordingly, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars we receive from foreign currency revenues. we are also exposed to currency translation risk because the results of our non-u.s. business are generally reported in local 12 table of contents currency, which we then translate to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar affect the amounts we record for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our financial results. we expect that our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow as the relative contribution of our non-u.s. operations increases. we enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions to reduce exposures to some of the principal currencies in which we receive management and franchise fees, but these efforts may not be successful. these hedging agreements also do not cover all currencies in which we do business, do not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely for the currencies that they do cover, and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. some of our management agreements and related contracts require us to make payments to owners if the hotels do not achieve specified levels of operating profit. some of our contracts with hotel owners require that we fund shortfalls if the hotels do not attain specified levels of operating profit. we may not be able to recover any fundings of such performance guarantees, which could lower our profits and reduce our cash flows. our new programs and new branded products may not be successful. we cannot assure you that recently launched or newly acquired brands, such as edition, ac hotels by marriott in the americas, protea hotels, moxy, delta hotels, and those we acquired as a result of the starwood combination, our recently announced investments in placepass and the joint venture with alibaba, or any other new programs or products we may launch in the future, will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other guests. we also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing or acquiring the brands or any new programs or products, or that those brands, programs, or products will be successful. in addition, some of our new or newly acquired brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with one or more third parties, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters, such as 2017 hurricanes harvey, irma, and maria, that caused severe damage in houston, the florida keys, puerto rico, the u.s. virgin islands, and many other caribbean islands, recent earthquakes, and man-made disasters in recent years as well as the potential spread of contagious diseases such as mers (middle east respiratory syndrome), zika virus, and ebola in locations where we own, manage, or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of guests, could cause a decline in business or leisure travel and reduce demand for lodging. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, or civil strife, such as recent events in las vegas, fort lauderdale, orlando, barcelona, berlin, brussels, london, manchester, paris, turkey, ukraine and russia, the middle east, and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we can obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. if a terrorist event were to involve one or more of our branded properties, demand for our hotels in particular could suffer, which could further hurt our revenues and profits. disagreements with owners of hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or delay implementation of product or service initiatives. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product, service or systems initiatives, the timing and amount of capital investments, and reimbursement for certain system initiatives and costs. such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are weaker. we seek to resolve any disagreements to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners, but we cannot always do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in an adverse judgment, settlement, or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. our business depends on the quality and reputation of our company and our brands, and any deterioration could adversely impact our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. events that may be beyond our control could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. many other factors also can influence our reputation and the value of our brands, including service, food quality and safety, availability and management of scarce natural resources, supply chain management, diversity, human rights, and support for local communities. reputational value is also based on perceptions, and broad access to social media makes it easy for anyone to provide public feedback that can influence perceptions of us, our brands and our hotels, and it may be difficult to control or effectively manage negative publicity, regardless of whether it is accurate. while reputations may take decades to build, negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse mainstream and social 13 table of contents media publicity, governmental investigations or penalties, or litigation. negative incidents could lead to tangible adverse effects on our business, including consumer boycotts, lost sales, disruption of access to our websites and reservation systems, loss of development opportunities, or associate retention and recruiting difficulties. any decline in the reputation or perceived quality of our brands or corporate image could affect our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our brands, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant non-cash charges to earnings. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $18.0 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets. we review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. estimated fair values of our brands or reporting units could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in guests' perception and the reputation of our brands, or changes in interest rates, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. actions by our franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our image and reputation. we franchise and license many of our brand names and trademarks to third parties for lodging, timeshare, residential, and our credit card programs. under the terms of their agreements with us, our franchisees and licensees interact directly with guests and other third parties under our brand and trade names. if these franchisees or licensees fail to maintain or act in accordance with applicable brand standards; experience operational problems, including any data breach involving guest information; or project a brand image inconsistent with ours, our image and reputation could suffer. although our franchise and license agreements provide us with recourse and remedies in the event of a breach by the franchisee or licensee, including termination of the agreements under certain circumstances, it could be expensive or time consuming for us to pursue such remedies . we also cannot assure you that in every instance a court would ultimately enforce our contractual termination rights. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies . a significant number of associates at our managed, leased, and owned hotels (approximately 16 percent in the u.s. and approximately 13 percent worldwide) are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if relationships with those associates or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we operate could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. collective bargaining agreements representing approximately half of our organized associates in the u.s. are expiring in 2018 and are in the process of being renegotiated. labor disputes, which are generally more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being renegotiated, could harm our relationship with our associates, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by our third-party property owners and franchisees. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. damage to, or losses involving, properties that we own, manage, or franchise may not be covered by insurance, or the cost of such insurance could increase. marriott requires comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our managed, leased, and owned properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. we require managed hotel owners to procure such coverage or we procure such coverage on their behalf. we also require our franchisees to maintain similar levels of insurance. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we or our franchisees can obtain, or our or their ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, terrorist acts, or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of our information systems, may result in high deductibles, low limits, or may be uninsurable or the cost of obtaining insurance may be unacceptably high. as a result, we and our franchisees may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels, and we expect substantial increases in property insurance costs in 2018 and possibly future years due to the severe and widespread damage caused by the 2017 atlantic hurricane season. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we or our franchisees carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of any lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of any capital that we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated 14 table of contents future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations for the property. development and financing risks while we are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, our hotel owners depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels, and our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. both we and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money to fund new hotel investments, as well as to refurbish and improve existing hotels. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we exert little control. obtaining financing on attractive terms may be constrained by the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. in addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our growth strategy for adding lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements and franchise agreements for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we occasionally develop new hotel and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as demonstrated by the impairment charges that we recorded in 2014 and 2015 in connection with our development and construction of three edition hotels and residences, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) continued weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to decreases in demand for hotel and residential properties, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays or cost overruns, including those due to a shortage of skilled labor, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for any projects that we do not pursue to completion. our owned properties and other real estate investments subject us to numerous risks . although we had relatively few owned and leased properties at the end of 2017 , we acquired a significant number of those properties as part of the starwood combination, and such properties are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property. although we have sold several of those properties since the merger date and we are actively pursuing additional sales, equity real estate investments can be difficult to sell quickly, and we may not be able to do so at prices we find acceptable or at all. moreover, the investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. a variety of other factors also affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels, and the availability of financing. for example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and/or time-consuming to develop real property or expand, modify, or renovate hotels. when interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding, or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property, sometimes for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. despite our asset-light strategy, our real estate properties could be impacted by any of these factors, resulting in a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. if our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including needed capital expenditures, our income could be adversely affected. 15 table of contents development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties which we have entered into or acquired as part of the starwood combination generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create added risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies, or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. such disputes may also be more likely in difficult business environments. investing through partnerships or joint ventures decreases our ability to manage risk. in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, starwood, and to a lesser extent marriott, has from time to time invested, and we may continue to invest, as a co-venturer. such arrangements often have shared control over the operation of the assets. therefore, such investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations. should a venture partner become bankrupt we could become liable for our partner's share of the venture's liabilities. also, our venture partner could have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our economic or business interests or goals, take action contrary to our instructions, or make requests contrary to our policies or objectives. further, we may be unable to act without the approval of our venture partners and, alternatively, our venture partners could take actions binding on the venture or partnership without our consent. therefore, actions by a co-venturer might subject the assets owned by the venture or partnership to additional risk. we cannot assure you that our investments through partnerships or joint ventures will be successful despite these risks. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties associated with our lodging properties or brands may reduce our profits. we participate, through licensing agreements or directly or through noncontrolling interests, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including residences and condominiums under many of our luxury and premium brand names and trademarks. such projects pose further risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging business, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including risks that (1) weakness in residential real estate and demand generally may reduce our profits and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; (2) increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or the tax benefits of mortgage financing or residential ownership generally, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and (3) residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims or claims related to purchaser deposits, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. some hotel openings in our development pipeline and approved projects may be delayed or not result in new hotels, which could adversely affect our growth prospects. we report a significant number of hotels in our development pipeline, including hotels under construction and under signed contracts, as well as hotels approved for development but not yet under contract. the eventual opening of such pipeline hotels and, in particular the approved hotels that are not yet under contract, is subject to numerous risks, including in some cases the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing or governmental or regulatory approvals. accordingly, we cannot assure you that all of our development pipeline will result in new hotels entering our system, or that those hotels will open when we anticipate. if we incur losses on loans or loan guarantees that we have made to third parties, our profits could decline. at times, we make loans for hotel development or renovation expenditures when we enter into or amend management or franchise agreements. from time to time we also provide third-party lenders with financial guarantees for the timely repayment of all or a portion of debt related to hotels that we manage or franchise, generally subject to an obligation that the owner reimburse us for any fundings. we could suffer losses if hotel owners or franchisees default on loans that we provide or fail to reimburse us for loan guarantees that we have funded. if owners of hotels that we manage or franchise cannot repay or refinance mortgage loans secured by their properties, our revenues and profits could decrease and our business could be harmed. the owners of many of our managed or franchised properties have pledged their hotels as collateral for mortgage loans that they entered into when those properties were purchased or refinanced. if those owners cannot repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, the lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt, and repossess the property. such sales or repossessions could, in some cases, result in the termination of our management or franchise agreements and eliminate our anticipated income and cash flows, which could negatively affect our results of operations. 16 table of contents technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management, property management, human resources and payroll systems, our loyalty programs , and technologies we make available to our guests and for our associates. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis, and our business could suffer if we cannot do that as quickly or effectively as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com , priceline.com , booking.com , travelocity.com , and orbitz.com , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although our best rate guarantee programs have helped limit guest preference shift to intermediaries and greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract guests, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google , bing , yahoo , and baidu to steer guests toward their websites (a practice that has been challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although we have successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries' websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from our direct online channels, or through their fees, increase the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. in addition, if we fail to reach satisfactory agreements as our contracts with intermediaries come up for periodic renewal, our hotels might no longer appear on their websites and we could lose business as a result. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of company employee and guest data. our businesses process, use, and transmit large volumes of employee and guest data, including credit card numbers and other personal information in various information systems that we maintain and in systems maintained by third parties, including our owners, franchisees and licensees, as well as our service providers, in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and various forms of electronic communications. the integrity and protection of that guest, employee, and company data is critical to our business. if that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our guests and employees also have a high expectation that we, as well as our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers, will adequately protect their personal information. the information, security, and privacy requirements imposed by laws and governmental regulation and the requirements of the payment card industry are also increasingly demanding, in the u.s., the european union, asia, and other jurisdictions where we operate. our systems and the systems maintained or used by our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers may not be able to satisfy these changing legal and regulatory requirements and employee and guest expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time to do so. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, ransomware or other malware, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data may materially impact our information systems and records and those of our owners, franchisees, licensees, or service providers. our reliance on computer, internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access or prevent authorized access to such systems have greatly increased in recent years. a significant theft, loss, loss of access to, or fraudulent use of guest, employee, or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. breaches in the security of our information systems or those of our owners, franchisees, licensees, or service providers or other disruptions in data services could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. in addition, although we carry cyber/privacy liability insurance that is designed to protect us against certain losses related to cyber risks, that insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in connection with cyber-attacks, security breaches, and other related breaches. furthermore, in the future such insurance may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. changes in privacy and data security laws could increase our operating costs, increase our exposure to fines and litigation, and adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we are subject to numerous laws, regulations, and contractual obligations designed to protect personal information, including in the european union, asia, and other jurisdictions. non-u.s. data privacy and data security laws, various u.s. federal and state laws, credit card industry security standards, and other information privacy and security standards are all applicable to us. compliance with changes in applicable data privacy 17 table of contents laws and regulations and contractual obligations may increase our operating costs, increase our exposure to fines and litigation in the event of alleged non-compliance, and adversely affect our reputation. additionally, we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws on marketing and solicitation or international privacy, e-privacy, and anti-spam laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email, online advertising, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of certain products. we also obtain access to potential guests from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships, and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company's marketing materials. if access to these lists were to be prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new guests and introduce them to our products could be impaired. any disruption in the functioning of our reservation systems, as part of our integration of starwood or otherwise, could adversely affect our performance and results. we manage global reservation systems that communicate reservations to our branded hotels that individuals make directly with us online, through our mobile apps, through our telephone call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel websites, and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, accuracy and efficiency of our reservation systems are critical aspects of our business and are important considerations for hotel owners when choosing our brands. our business may suffer if we fail to maintain, upgrade, or prevent disruption to our reservation systems. in addition, the risk of disruption in the functioning of our global reservation systems could increase with the anticipated systems integration that is part of our integration of starwood. disruptions in or changes to our reservation systems could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. other risks changes in laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations, and policies in jurisdictions around the world, including those for financial reporting, taxes, healthcare, cybersecurity, privacy, climate change, and the environment. changes to these laws, regulations, or policies, including those associated with health care, tax or financial reforms, climate change and the environment, could reduce our profits. we also anticipate that many of the jurisdictions where we do business will continue to review taxes and other revenue raising measures, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices or reduce our profits. in particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations, or official interpretations in ways that could significantly impact us, and other modifications could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our operations or could require costly changes to those operations or the way in which they are structured. uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 tax act ), which significantly affected u.s. tax law by changing how the u.s. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. the 2017 tax act requires complex computations not previously required by u.s. tax law. as such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. further, compliance with the 2017 tax act and the accounting for such provisions require preparation and analysis of information not previously required or regularly produced. in addition, the u.s. department of treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in future periods. accordingly, while we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the 2017 tax act in our financial statements, further regulatory or gaap accounting guidance for the 2017 tax act , our further analysis on the application of the law, and refinement of our initial estimates and calculations could materially change our current provisional estimates, which could in turn materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we cannot recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. a shortage of skilled labor could also result in higher wages that would increase our labor costs, which could reduce our profits. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a shareholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the shareholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, 18 table of contents among other things, require supermajority votes for mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without shareholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a shareholder rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, stock prices, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how we manage such exposure in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable and floating-rate debt. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities and fluctuations in stock price from our investment in a publicly traded company. changes in the price of the underlying stock can impact the fair value of our investment. we account for our investments as available-for-sale securities under the guidance for accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-u.s. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. see footnote 2 summary of significant accounting policies for more information on derivative instruments. the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2017 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets - maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. fixed-rate notes receivable $ 2 $ 1 $ 2 $ 1 $ 5 $ 45 $ 56 $ 58 average interest rate 1.14 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 5 $ 34 $ 12 $ 22 $ $ 20 $ 93 $ 79 average interest rate 4.27 % liabilities - maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (388 ) $ (837 ) $ (358 ) $ (855 ) $ (1,107 ) $ (2,147 ) $ (5,692 ) $ (5,735 ) average interest rate 3.34 % floating-rate debt $ (4 ) $ $ $ (2,371 ) $ $ $ (2,375 ) $ (2,375 ) average interest rate 1.82 % 42 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings business and overview, liquidity and capital resources, and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by, or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, or similar expressions. any number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other factors we describe from time to 9 table of contents time in our periodic filings with the sec. we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement. the forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether due to new information, future developments, or otherwise. risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on us or on our financial condition. you should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those we express in forward-looking statements contained in this report or in other company communications. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel properties and home and apartment sharing services for guests. we operate in markets that contain many competitors. each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains and home and apartment sharing services in national and international venues, and with independent companies in regional markets. our ability to remain competitive and attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services, including our loyalty program , direct booking channels, and consumer-facing technology platforms and services, from those offered by others. if we cannot compete successfully in these areas, our operating margins could contract, our market share could decrease, and our earnings could decline. further, new lodging supply in individual markets could have a negative impact on the hotel industry and hamper our ability to increase room rates or occupancy in those markets. economic downturns could impact our financial results and growth. weak economic conditions in one or more parts of the world, changes in oil prices and currency values, disruptions in national, regional, or global economies generally and the travel business in particular that might result from changing governmental policies in areas such as trade, travel, immigration, healthcare, and related issues, political instability in some areas, and the uncertainty over how long any of these conditions could continue, could have a negative impact on the lodging industry. because of such uncertainty, we continue to experience weakened demand for our hotel rooms in some markets. our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if economic or these other conditions worsen. u.s. government travel and travel associated with u.s. government operations are also a significant part of our business, and this aspect of our business has suffered and could in the future suffer due to u.s. federal spending cuts, or government hiring restrictions and any further limitations that may result from presidential or congressional action or inaction, including for example, a u.s. federal government shutdown, such as the partial shutdown that occurred in december 2018 and january 2019. risks relating to our integration of starwood the continued diversion of resources and management's attention to the integration of starwood could still adversely affect our day-to-day business. while the integration of starwood is largely complete, integration related matters still place a significant burden on our management and internal resources and may continue to do so for some time, which could have adverse effects on our business or financial results. some of the anticipated benefits of combining starwood and marriott may still not be realized. we decided to acquire starwood with the expectation that the starwood combination would result in various benefits. although we have already achieved substantial benefits, others remain subject to several uncertainties, including whether we can achieve certain revenue synergies. integration could also involve unexpected costs. disruptions of each legacy company's ongoing businesses, processes, and systems could adversely affect the combined company. we have encountered challenges in harmonizing our different reservations and other systems, our loyalty program , and other business practices, and we may encounter additional or increased challenges related to integration. because of these or other factors, we cannot assure you when or that we will be able to fully realize additional benefits from the starwood combination in the form of enhancing revenues or achieving other operating efficiencies, cost savings, or benefits, or that challenges encountered with our harmonization efforts will not have adverse effects on our business or reputation. program changes associated with our integration efforts could have a negative effect on guest preference or behavior. our integration efforts involved significant changes to certain of our guest programs and services, including our loyalty program , co-branded credit card arrangements, and consumer-facing technology platforms and services. while we believe such changes enhance these programs and services for our guests and will drive guest preference and satisfaction, these changes remain subject to various uncertainties, including whether the changes could be negatively perceived by certain guests and consumers, could affect guest preference or could alter reservation, spending or other guest or consumer behavior, all of which could adversely affect our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. 10 table of contents risks relating to our business operational risks premature termination of our management or franchise agreements could hurt our financial performance. our hotel management and franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which we fail or elect not to cure. some courts have also applied agency law principles and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, including us (or have interpreted hotel management agreements to be personal services contracts ). property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements provide otherwise, and some courts have upheld such assertions about our management agreements and may do so in the future. if terminations occur for these or other reasons, we may need to enforce our right to damages for breach of contract and related claims, which may cause us to incur significant legal fees and expenses. any damages we ultimately collect could be less than the projected future value of the fees and other amounts we would have otherwise collected under the management or franchise agreement. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. our lodging operations are subject to global, national, and regional conditions. because we conduct our business on a global platform, changes in global and regional economies and governmental policies impact our activities. in recent years, decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions and the heightened travel security measures resulting from the threat of further terrorism have hurt our business. our future performance could be similarly affected by the economic and political environment in each of our operating regions, the resulting unknown pace of both business and leisure travel, and any future incidents or changes in those regions. the growing significance of our operations outside of the u.s. makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits, disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. more than a third of the rooms in our system are located outside of the u.s. and its territories. we expect that our international operations, and resulting revenues, will continue to grow. this increasingly exposes us to the challenges and risks of doing business outside the u.s., many of which are outside of our control, and which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions, disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. these challenges include: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and government policies that may impact our operations, such as foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with u.s. and foreign laws that affect the activities of companies abroad, such as competition laws, cybersecurity and privacy laws, currency regulations, and other laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (4) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (5) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism, or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and (6) currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may impact the results and cash flows of our international operations. any failure by our international operations to comply with anti-corruption laws or trade sanctions could increase our costs, reduce our profits, limit our growth, harm our reputation, or subject us to broader liability. we are subject to restrictions imposed by the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and anti-corruption laws and regulations of other countries applicable to our operations, such as the uk bribery act. anti-corruption laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons to receive or retain business. these laws also require us to maintain adequate internal controls and accurate books and records. we have properties in many parts of the world where corruption is common, and our compliance with anti-corruption laws may potentially conflict with local customs and practices. the compliance programs, internal controls and policies we maintain and enforce to promote compliance with applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws may not prevent our associates, contractors or agents from acting in ways prohibited by these laws and regulations. we are also subject to trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control and the u.s. department of commerce. our compliance programs and internal controls also may not prevent conduct that is prohibited under these rules. the u.s. may impose additional sanctions at any time against any country in which or with whom we do business. depending on the nature of the sanctions imposed, our operations in the relevant country could be restricted or otherwise adversely affected. any violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations or trade sanctions could result in significant civil and criminal penalties, reduce our profits, disrupt or have a material adverse effect on our business, damage our reputation, or result in lawsuits being brought against the company or its officers or directors. in addition, the operation of these laws or an imposition of further restrictions in these areas could increase our cost of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities, or cease operations in certain countries, that would otherwise support growth. 11 table of contents exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. accordingly, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars we receive from foreign currency revenues. we are also exposed to currency translation risk because the results of our non-u.s. business are generally reported in local currency, which we then translate to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar affect the amounts we record for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our financial results. we expect that our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow as the relative contribution of our non-u.s. operations increases. we enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions to reduce exposures to some of the principal currencies in which we receive management and franchise fees, but these efforts may not be successful. these hedging agreements also do not cover all currencies in which we do business, do not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely for the currencies that they do cover, and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. some of our management agreements and related contracts require us to make payments to owners if the hotels do not achieve specified levels of operating profit. some of our contracts with hotel owners require that we fund shortfalls if the hotels do not attain specified levels of operating profit. we may not be able to recover any fundings of such performance guarantees, which could lower our profits and reduce our cash flows. our new programs and new branded products may not be successful. we cannot assure you that new or newly acquired brands, such as those we acquired as a result of the starwood combination, our investments in placepass and the joint venture with alibaba, our pilot of a homesharing offering in certain european cities, or any other new programs or products we may launch in the future, will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other guests. we also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing or acquiring the brands or any new programs or products, or that those brands, programs, or products will be successful. in addition, some of our new or newly acquired brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with one or more third parties, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. disagreements with these third parties could slow the development of these brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands. risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic activity, wildfires, and other natural disasters, as well as man-made disasters and the potential spread of contagious diseases in locations where we own, manage, or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of guests, have in the past caused and could in the future cause a decline in business or leisure travel and reduce demand for lodging to an extent and for durations that we are not able to predict. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, or civil strife, and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we can obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. if a terrorist event were to involve one or more of our branded properties, demand for our hotels in particular could suffer, which could further hurt our revenues and profits. disagreements with owners of hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or delay implementation of product or service initiatives. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product, service or systems initiatives, the timing and amount of capital investments, and reimbursement for certain system initiatives and costs. such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are weaker. we seek to resolve any disagreements to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners, but we cannot always do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in an adverse judgment, settlement, or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. our business depends on the quality and reputation of our company and our brands, and any deterioration could adversely impact our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. certain events, including those that may be beyond our control, could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. many other factors also can influence our reputation and the value of our brands, including service, food quality and safety, availability and management of scarce natural resources, supply chain management, diversity, human rights, and support for local communities. reputational value is also based on perceptions, and broad access to social media makes it easy for anyone to provide public feedback that can influence perceptions of us, our brands and our hotels, and it may 12 table of contents be difficult to control or effectively manage negative publicity, regardless of whether it is accurate. while reputations may take decades to build, negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse mainstream and social media publicity, governmental investigations or penalties, or litigation. negative incidents could lead to tangible adverse effects on our business, including lost sales, boycotts, reduced enrollment and/or participation in our loyalty program , disruption of access to our websites and reservation systems, loss of development opportunities, or associate retention and recruiting difficulties. any decline in the reputation or perceived quality of our brands or corporate image could affect our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. the data security incident could have a negative impact on our reputation, our corporate image and our relationship with our guests. if our brands, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant non-cash charges to earnings. as of december 31, 2018 , we had $17.4 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets. we review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. estimated fair values of our brands or reporting units could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in guests' perception and the reputation of our brands, or changes in interest rates, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. actions by our franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our image and reputation. we franchise and license many of our brand names and trademarks to third parties for lodging, timeshare, residential, and our credit card programs. under the terms of their agreements with us, our franchisees and licensees interact directly with guests and other third parties under our brand and trade names. if these franchisees or licensees fail to maintain or act in accordance with applicable brand standards; experience operational problems, including any data breach involving guest information; or project a brand image inconsistent with ours, our image and reputation could suffer. although our franchise and license agreements provide us with recourse and remedies in the event of a breach by the franchisee or licensee, including termination of the agreements under certain circumstances, it could be expensive or time consuming for us to pursue such remedies . we also cannot assure you that in every instance a court would ultimately enforce our contractual termination rights or that we could collect any awarded damages from the defaulting franchisee or licensee. collective bargaining activity and strikes could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs, and interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies . a significant number of associates at our managed, leased, and owned hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if relationships with our organized associates or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we operate could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts, and public demonstrations, as we saw in the fourth quarter of 2018. although we recently completed contract negotiations for 43 unionized hotels following multi-week strikes by our associates at 29 of those hotels, a number of collective bargaining agreements are expected to be negotiated in 2019. labor disputes and disruptions have in the past, and could in the future, result in adverse publicity and adversely affect operations and revenues at affected hotels. in addition, labor disputes and disruptions could harm our relationship with our associates, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities, harm our relationships with our guests and customers, divert management attention, and reduce customer demand for our services, all of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs, and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by our third-party property owners and franchisees. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we cannot recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. a shortage of skilled labor could also result in higher wages that would increase our labor costs, which could reduce our profits. damage to, or losses involving, properties that we own, manage, or franchise may not be covered by insurance, or the cost of such insurance could increase. marriott requires comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our 13 table of contents managed, leased, and owned properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. we require managed hotel owners to procure such coverage or we procure such coverage on their behalf. we also require our franchisees to maintain similar levels of insurance. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we or our franchisees can obtain, or our or their ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, terrorist acts, or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of our information systems, may result in high deductibles, low limits, or may be uninsurable or the cost of obtaining insurance may be unacceptably high. as a result, we and our franchisees may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels, or may not be successful in obtaining insurance at all. for example, in 2018 substantial increases in property insurance costs occurred due to the severe and widespread damage caused by the 2017 atlantic hurricane season and other natural disasters. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we or our franchisees carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of any lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of any capital that we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations for the property. development and financing risks while we are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, our hotel owners depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels, and our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. both we and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money to fund new hotel investments, as well as to refurbish and improve existing hotels. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we exert little control. obtaining financing on attractive terms may be constrained by the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. in addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our growth strategy for adding lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements and franchise agreements for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy and rate, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and demand for construction resources. our development and renovation activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we occasionally develop, or acquire and renovate, hotel and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as demonstrated by the impairment charges that we recorded in 2014 and 2015 in connection with our development and construction of three edition hotels and residences, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) any future weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop or renovate could become less attractive due to decreases in demand for hotel and residential properties, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays or cost overruns, including those due to a shortage of skilled labor, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for any projects that we do not pursue to completion. our owned properties and other real estate investments subject us to numerous risks . although we had relatively few owned and leased properties at the end of 2018 , such properties are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property. although we have sold many properties in recent years and we are actively pursuing additional sales, equity real estate investments can be difficult to sell quickly, and we may not be able to do so at prices we find acceptable or at all. moreover, the investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income 14 table of contents earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. a variety of other factors also affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels, and the availability of financing. for example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and/or time-consuming to develop real property or expand, modify, or renovate hotels. when interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding, or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property, sometimes for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. despite our asset-light strategy, our real estate properties could be impacted by any of these factors, resulting in a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. if our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including needed capital expenditures, our income could be adversely affected. development and other investing activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes and may decrease our ability to manage risk. we have from time to time invested, and may continue to invest, in partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties. these investments generally include some form of shared control over the development of the asset or operations of the business and create added risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, could have or develop business interests, policies, or objectives that are inconsistent with ours, could take action without our approval (or, conversely, prevent us from taking action without our partner's approval), or could make requests contrary to our policies or objectives. should a venture partner become bankrupt we could become liable for our partner's share of the venture's liabilities. actions by a co-venturer might subject the assets owned by the venture or partnership to additional risk, such as increased project costs, project delays, or operational difficulties following project completion. these risks may be more likely to occur in difficult business environments. we cannot assure you that our investments through partnerships or joint ventures will be successful despite these risks. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties associated with our lodging properties or brands may reduce our profits. we participate, through licensing agreements or directly or through noncontrolling interests, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including residences and condominiums under many of our luxury and premium brand names and trademarks. such projects pose further risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging business, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including risks that (1) weakness in residential real estate and demand generally may reduce our profits and could make it more difficult to convince future development partners of the value added by our brands; (2) increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or the tax benefits of mortgage financing or residential ownership generally, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and (3) residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims or claims related to purchaser deposits, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. some hotel openings in our development pipeline and approved projects may be delayed or not result in new hotels, which could adversely affect our growth prospects. we report a significant number of hotels in our development pipeline, including hotels under construction and under signed contracts, as well as hotels approved for development but not yet under contract. the eventual opening of such pipeline hotels and, in particular the approved hotels that are not yet under contract, is subject to numerous risks, including in some cases the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing or governmental or regulatory approvals. competition for skilled construction labor and disruption in the supply chain for materials could cause construction timelines for pipeline hotels to lengthen. accordingly, we cannot assure you that all of our development pipeline will result in new hotels entering our system, or that those hotels will open when we anticipate. if we incur losses on loans or loan guarantees that we have made to third parties, our profits could decline. at times, we make loans for hotel development or renovation expenditures when we enter into or amend management or franchise agreements. from time to time we also provide third-party lenders with financial guarantees for the timely repayment of all or a portion of debt related to hotels that we manage or franchise, generally subject to an obligation that the owner reimburse us for any fundings. we could suffer losses if hotel owners or franchisees default on loans that we provide or fail to reimburse us for loan guarantees that we have funded. if owners of hotels that we manage or franchise cannot repay or refinance mortgage loans secured by their properties, our revenues and profits could decrease and our business could be harmed. the owners of many of our managed or franchised properties have pledged their hotels as collateral for mortgage loans that they entered into when those properties were purchased or refinanced. if those owners cannot repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, the lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt, and repossess the property. such sales or repossessions could, in some cases, result in the termination of our management or franchise agreements and eliminate our anticipated income and cash flows, which could negatively affect our results of operations. 15 table of contents technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management, property management, human resources and payroll systems, our loyalty program , and technologies we make available to our guests and for our associates. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis, and our business could suffer if we cannot do that as quickly or effectively as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com , priceline.com , booking.com , travelocity.com , and orbitz.com , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although our best rate guarantee and member rate programs have helped limit guest preference shift to intermediaries and greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract guests, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google , bing , yahoo , and baidu to steer guests toward their websites (a practice that has been challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). although we have successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries' websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from our direct online channels, or through their fees, increase the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. in addition, if we are not able to negotiate new agreements on satisfactory terms when our existing contracts with intermediaries (which generally have 2- to 3- year terms) come up for renewal, our business and prospects could be negatively impacted in a number of ways. for example, if newly negotiated agreements are on terms less favorable to our hotels than the expiring agreements, or if we are not able to negotiate new agreements and our hotels no longer appear on intermediary websites, our bookings could decline, our profits (and the operating profits of hotels in our system) could decline, and customers and owners may be less attracted to our brands. we may not be able to recapture or offset any such loss of business through actions we take to enhance our direct marketing and reservation channels or to rely on other channels or other intermediary websites. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of company, associate, and guest data. in the operation of our business, we collect, store, use, and transmit large volumes of data regarding associates, guests, customers, owners, licensees, franchisees, and our own business operations, including credit card numbers, reservation and loyalty data, and other personal information, in various information systems that we maintain and in systems maintained by third parties, including our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers. the integrity and protection of this data is critical to our business. if this data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our guests and associates also have a high expectation that we, as well as our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers, will adequately protect and appropriately use their personal information. the information, security, and privacy requirements imposed by laws and governmental regulation, our contractual obligations, and the requirements of the payment card industry are also increasingly demanding in the u.s., the european union, asia, and other jurisdictions where we operate. our systems and the systems maintained or used by our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers may not be able to satisfy these changing legal and regulatory requirements and associate and guest expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time to do so. we may incur significant additional costs to meet these requirements, obligations, and expectations, and in the event of alleged or actual noncompliance we may experience increased operating costs, increased exposure to fines and litigation, and increased risk of damage to our reputation and brand. the data security incident could have numerous adverse effects on our business. as a result of the data security incident, we are a party to numerous class action lawsuits brought by consumers and others in the u.s. and canada, one securities class action lawsuit in the u.s., and one shareholder derivative lawsuit in the u.s. we may be named as a party in additional lawsuits and other claims may be asserted by or on behalf of guests, customers, hotel owners, shareholders or others seeking monetary damages or other relief. a number of federal, state and foreign governmental authorities have also made inquiries or opened investigations related to the data security incident, including under various data protection and privacy regulations, such as the european union's general data protection regulation. in addition, the major payment card networks require the completion of a forensic investigation by a certified investigative firm, which is underway. responding to and resolving these lawsuits, claims and investigations may result in material remedial and other expenses which may not be covered by insurance, including fines. governmental authorities investigating the data security incident also may seek to 16 table of contents impose undertakings, injunctive relief, consent decrees, or other civil or criminal penalties, which could, among other things, materially increase our data security costs or otherwise require us to alter how we operate our business. card issuers or payment card networks may seek to attribute losses or other expenses to the data security incident, and we cannot currently determine to what extent those losses and expenses may be our legal responsibility. significant management time and company resources have been, and may continue to be, devoted to the data security incident. the data security incident and publicity related to it could have a range of other adverse effects on our business or prospects, including causing or contributing to loss of consumer confidence, reduced consumer demand, reduced enrollment and/or participation in our loyalty program , loss of development opportunities, and associate retention and recruiting difficulties. these expenses and other adverse effects could have a material effect on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. although we maintain insurance designed to limit our exposure to losses such as those related to the data security incident, that insurance may not be sufficient or available to cover all of our expenses or other losses (including fines) related to the data security incident. further, as a result of the data security incident and market forces beyond our control, relevant insurance coverage may not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our remediation efforts related to the data security incident will be costly and may not be effective. following the data security incident, we implemented additional technical measures on our network designed to contain and remove the threats identified during our investigation, secure the starwood reservations database, and monitor for any further unauthorized activity. we also accelerated ongoing security enhancements to our network. we have incurred costs in connection with these remediation efforts to date, and we could incur additional significant costs as we take further steps designed to prevent unauthorized access to our network. the technical measures we have taken are based on our investigation of the causes of the data security incident, but additional measures may be needed to prevent a similar incident in the future and such measures may not be sufficient to prevent other types of incidents. we cannot assure you that all potential causes of the incident have been identified and remediated and will not occur again. additional cyber-security incidents could have adverse effects on our business. the data security incident was significant, went undetected for a long period of time and could have numerous adverse effects on our business, as discussed above. if we experience additional cyber security incidents or fail to detect and appropriately respond to additional cyber security incidents, the severity of the adverse effects on our business could be magnified. we have implemented security measures to safeguard our systems and data, and we intend to continue implementing additional measures in the future, but, as with the data security incident, our measures may not be sufficient to maintain the confidentiality, security, or availability of the data we collect, store, and use to operate our business. measures taken by our service providers or our owners, franchisees, licensees, and their service providers also may not be sufficient. efforts to hack or circumvent security measures, efforts to gain unauthorized access to data, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, ransomware or other malware, phishing or other types of business email compromises, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data have impacted, and may in the future impact, our information systems and records or those of our owners, franchisees, licensees, or service providers. our reliance on computer, internet-based, and mobile systems and communications, and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by third parties to gain unauthorized access or prevent authorized access to such systems, have greatly increased in recent years. we have experienced cyber-attacks, attempts to disrupt access to our systems and data, and attempts to affect the integrity of our data, and the frequency and sophistication of such efforts could continue to increase. in addition to the consequences of the data security incident discussed above, any significant theft of, unauthorized access to, loss of, loss of access to, or fraudulent use of guest, associate, owner, franchisee, licensee, or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in legal, regulatory and other consequences, including remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. depending on the nature and scope of the event, compromises in the security of our information systems or those of our owners, franchisees, licensees, or service providers or other disruptions in data services could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits, negative publicity, and other adverse effects on our business, including lost sales, boycotts, reduced enrollment and/or participation in our loyalty program , litigation, loss of development opportunities, or associate retention and recruiting difficulties, all of which could affect our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage information systems change frequently, can be difficult to detect for long periods of time, and can involve difficult or prolonged assessment or remediation periods even once detected, which could magnify the severity of these adverse effects. in addition, although we carry cyber/privacy liability insurance that is designed to protect us against certain losses related to cyber risks, that insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all expenses or other losses (including fines) or all types of claims that may arise in connection with cyber-attacks, security compromises, and other related incidents, and until we renew our current policy and a new policy period begins, our policy coverage limits will be reduced by the amount of claims paid related to the data security incident. furthermore, in the future such insurance may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. changes in privacy and data security laws could increase our operating costs, increase our exposure to fines and litigation, and adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we are subject to numerous, complex, and 17 table of contents frequently changing laws, regulations, and contractual obligations designed to protect personal information, including in the u.s., the european union, asia, and other jurisdictions. non-u.s. data privacy and data security laws, various u.s. federal and state laws, payment card industry security standards, and other information privacy and security standards are all applicable to us. significant legislative or regulatory changes could be adopted in the future, including in reaction to the data security incident or data breaches experienced by other companies. compliance with changes in applicable data privacy laws and regulations and contractual obligations, including responding to investigations into our compliance, may restrict our business operations, increase our operating costs, increase our exposure to fines and litigation in the event of alleged non-compliance, and adversely affect our reputation. following the data security incident, the information commissioner's office in the united kingdom ( ico ) notified us that it had opened an investigation into our online privacy policy and related practices. this investigation is separate from the ico's investigation specifically related to the data security incident. as a result of this investigation, we could be exposed to significant fines and remediation costs in addition to any imposed as a result of the data security incident, and adverse publicity related to the investigation could adversely affect our reputation. additionally, we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the canspam act, and various u.s. state laws, or new federal laws on marketing and solicitation or international privacy, e-privacy, and anti-spam laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email, online advertising, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of certain products. we also obtain access to potential guests and customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships, and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company's marketing materials. if access to these lists were to be prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new guests and customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. any disruption in the functioning of our reservation systems could adversely affect our performance and results. we manage global reservation systems that communicate reservations to our branded hotels that individuals make directly with us online, through our mobile apps, through our telephone call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel websites, and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, accuracy and efficiency of our reservation systems are critical aspects of our business and are important considerations for hotel owners when choosing our brands. our business may suffer if we fail to maintain, upgrade, or prevent disruption to our reservation systems. in addition, the risk of disruption in the functioning of our global reservation systems could increase with the ongoing systems integration that is part of our integration of starwood. disruptions in or changes to our reservation systems could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. other risks ineffective internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements, reduce investor confidence, and adversely impact our stock price . as discussed in part ii, item 8 management's report on internal control over financial reporting later in this report, in the 2018 fourth quarter, we identified a material weakness in internal control related to our accounting for our loyalty program , which resulted in errors in our previously issued financial statements for the 2018 first, second, and third quarters. internal controls related to the implementation of asu 2014-09 and the accounting for our loyalty program are important to accurately reflect our financial position and results of operations in our financial reports. we are in the process of remediating the material weakness, but our efforts may not be successful. if we are unable to remediate the material weakness in an appropriate and timely manner, or if we identify additional control deficiencies that individually or together constitute significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, our ability to accurately record, process, and report financial information and consequently, our ability to prepare financial statements within required time periods, could be adversely affected. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in violations of applicable securities laws, stock exchange listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt agreements, subject us to litigation and investigations, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements, and adversely impact our stock price and ability to access capital markets. changes in laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations, and policies in jurisdictions around the world, including those for financial reporting, taxes, healthcare, cybersecurity, privacy, climate change, and the environment. changes to such laws, regulations, or policies could reduce our profits. we also anticipate that many of the jurisdictions where we do business will continue to review taxes and other revenue raising measures, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices or reduce our profits. in particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations, or official interpretations in ways that could significantly impact us, and other modifications could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our operations or could require costly changes to those operations or the way in which they are structured. 18 table of contents we could be subject to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to a variety of taxes in the u.s. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. we may recognize additional tax expense and be subject to additional tax liabilities due to changes in laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. such changes could come about as a result of economic, political, and other conditions. our tax expense and liabilities may also be affected by other factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, and changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our tax expense and liabilities. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. for example, the legislation known as the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 tax act ) requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required by u.s. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the 2017 tax act , significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. the u.s. treasury department, the u.s. internal revenue service, and other standard-setting bodies will continue to interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 tax act will be applied or otherwise administered. as future guidance is issued, we may make adjustments to amounts that we have previously recorded that may materially impact our financial statements in the period in which the adjustments are made. we are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional tax liabilities against us. developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical tax accruals. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a shareholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the shareholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes for mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without shareholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a shareholder rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, stock prices, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how we manage such exposure in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable and floating-rate debt. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities and fluctuations in stock price from our investment in a publicly traded company. changes in the price of the underlying stock can impact the fair value of our investment. we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-u.s. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. see footnote 2. summary of significant accounting policies for more information on derivative instruments. the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2018 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets - maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. fixed-rate notes receivable $ 2 $ 2 $ 2 $ 2 $ $ 38 $ 46 $ 46 average interest rate 1.27 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 4 $ 60 $ $ $ $ 21 $ 85 $ 76 average interest rate 4.65 % liabilities - maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (827 ) $ (359 ) $ (857 ) $ (1,107 ) $ (687 ) $ (2,555 ) $ (6,392 ) $ (6,254 ) average interest rate 3.45 % floating-rate debt $ $ (547 ) $ (2,245 ) $ $ $ $ (2,792 ) $ (2,793 ) average interest rate 2.88 % 40 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and elsewhere in this annual report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the captions business and overview, liquidity and capital resources , and other statements throughout this annual report preceded by, followed by, or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, or similar expressions. any number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. we therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement. the forward-looking statements in this annual report speak only as of the date of this annual report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether due to new information, future developments, or otherwise. 9 table of contents risks and uncertainties we are subject to various risks that make an investment in our securities risky. the events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may or may not be able to accurately predict, recognize, or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results (including components of our financial results), cash flows, liquidity, and stock price. in addition, these risks could cause results to differ materially from those we express in forward-looking statements contained in this annual report or in other company communications. these risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected by factors, events, or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations. because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully for guests with other hotel properties and home sharing or rental services. we operate in markets that contain many competitors. each of our hotel brands and our home rental offering competes with major hotel chains, regional hotel chains, independent hotels, and home sharing and rental services across national and international venues. our ability to remain competitive and attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services, including our loyalty program , direct booking channels, and consumer-facing technology platforms and services, from those offered by others. if we cannot compete successfully in these areas, our operating margins could contract, our market share could decrease, and our earnings could decline. further, new lodging supply in individual markets could have a negative impact on the hotel industry and hamper our ability to increase room rates or occupancy in those markets. economic downturns and other global, national, and regional conditions could impact our financial results and growth. because we conduct our business on a global platform, changes in global, national, or regional economies, governmental policies (including in areas such as trade, travel, immigration, healthcare, and related issues), and geopolitical conditions impact our activities. our business is impacted by decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions, changes in energy prices and currency values, political instability, heightened travel security measures, travel advisories, disruptions in air travel, and concerns over disease, violence, war, or terrorism. our performance could be materially affected if these conditions arise or extend longer than anticipated, or in other circumstances that we are not able to predict or mitigate. during the last recession when demand for hotel rooms declined significantly, particularly in 2009, we took steps to reduce operating costs and improve efficiency and such cost controls could again become necessary if demand significantly declines. our efforts to implement any such changes in a manner designed to maintain guest loyalty, owner preference, and associate satisfaction may not be successful, and our market share may suffer as a result. in addition, u.s. government travel and travel associated with u.s. government operations are a significant part of our business, which can suffer due to u.s. federal spending cuts, government hiring restrictions, or other spending limitations that may result from presidential or congressional action or inaction, including for example, a u.s. federal government shutdown, such as the partial shutdown that occurred in december 2018 and january 2019. risks relating to our integration of starwood some of the anticipated benefits of combining starwood and marriott may still not be realized and challenges related to our integration efforts could have adverse effects on our business. although we have achieved substantial benefits from the starwood combination, we cannot assure you when or that we will be able to fully realize additional benefits that we anticipated when we decided to acquire starwood, including enhancing revenues or achieving other operating efficiencies or cost savings. we also cannot assure you that challenges we encountered with the harmonization of our systems, our loyalty program, and other business practices (some of which still place a significant burden on our management and internal resources) will not have significant adverse effects on our business or reputation. program changes associated with our integration efforts could have a negative effect on guest preference or behavior. our integration efforts involved significant changes to certain of our guest programs and services, including our loyalty program , co-brand credit card arrangements, and consumer-facing technology platforms and services. while we believe such changes enhance these programs and services for our guests and will drive guest preference and satisfaction, these changes remain subject to various uncertainties, including whether the changes could be negatively perceived by certain guests and consumers, could affect guest preference or could alter reservation, spending or other guest or consumer behavior, all of which could adversely affect our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. 10 table of contents risks relating to our business operational risks premature termination of our management or franchise agreements could hurt our financial performance. our hotel management and franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which we fail or elect not to cure, or in certain limited cases, other negotiated contractual termination rights. some courts have also applied agency law principles and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, including us (or have interpreted hotel management agreements to be personal services contracts ). property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements provide otherwise, and some courts have upheld such assertions about our management agreements and may do so in the future. when terminations occur for these or other reasons, we may need to enforce our right to damages for breach of contract and related claims, which may cause us to incur significant legal fees and expenses. any damages we ultimately collect could be less than the projected future value of the fees and other amounts we would have otherwise collected under the management or franchise agreement. a significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. the growing significance of our operations outside of the u.s. makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits, disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. more than a third of the rooms in our system are located outside of the u.s. and its territories. we expect that our international operations, and resulting revenues, will continue to grow. this increasingly exposes us to the challenges and risks of doing business outside the u.s., many of which are outside of our control, and which could materially reduce our revenues or profits, materially increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions, significantly disrupt our business, or significantly damage our reputation. these challenges include: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and government policies that may impact our operations, such as foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with u.s. and foreign laws that affect the activities of companies abroad, such as competition laws, cybersecurity and privacy laws, currency regulations, and other laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (4) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (5) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism, war, pandemics, or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and (6) currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may impact the results and cash flows of our international operations. any failure by our international operations to comply with anti-corruption laws or trade sanctions could increase our costs, reduce our profits, limit our growth, harm our reputation, or subject us to broader liability. we are subject to restrictions imposed by the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws and regulations of other countries applicable to our operations, such as the u.k. bribery act. anti-corruption laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making certain payments to government officials or other persons in order to influence official acts or decisions or to obtain or retain business. these laws also require us to maintain adequate internal controls and accurate books and records. we have properties in many parts of the world where corruption is common, and our compliance with anti-corruption laws may potentially conflict with local customs and practices. the compliance programs, internal controls and policies we maintain and enforce to promote compliance with applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws may not prevent our associates, contractors, or agents from acting in ways prohibited by these laws and regulations. we are also subject to trade sanctions administered by the u.s. office of foreign assets control and the u.s. department of commerce, and authorities in other countries where we do business. our compliance programs and internal controls also may not prevent conduct that is prohibited under these rules. the u.s. or other countries may impose additional sanctions at any time against any country in which or with whom we do business. depending on the nature of the sanctions imposed, our operations in the relevant country could be restricted or otherwise adversely affected. any violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations or trade sanctions could result in significant civil and criminal penalties, reduce our profits, disrupt or have a material adverse effect on our business, damage our reputation, or result in lawsuits or regulatory actions being brought against the company or its officers or directors. in addition, the operation of these laws or an imposition of further restrictions in these areas could increase our cost of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities, or cease operations in certain countries, that would otherwise support growth. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. accordingly, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars we receive from foreign currency revenues. we are also exposed to currency translation risk because the results of our non-u.s. business are generally reported in local currency, which we then translate to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. as a result, changes between the 11 table of contents foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar affect the amounts we record for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our financial results. we expect that our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow as the relative contribution of our non-u.s. operations increases. we enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions to reduce exposures to some of the principal currencies in which we receive management and franchise fees, but these efforts may not be successful. these hedging agreements also do not cover all currencies in which we do business, do not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely for the currencies that they do cover, and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. some of our management agreements and related contracts require us to make payments to owners if the hotels do not achieve specified levels of operating profit. some of our contracts with hotel owners require that we fund shortfalls if the hotels do not attain specified levels of operating profit. we may not be able to recover any fundings of such performance guarantees, which could lower our profits and reduce our cash flows. our new programs and new branded products may not be successful. we cannot assure you that new or newly acquired brands, or any other new programs or products we have recently launched or may launch in the future, will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other guests. we also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing or acquiring the brands or any new programs or products, or that those brands, programs, or products will be successful. risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, violence, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues. we have seen a decline in travel and reduced demand for lodging due to so called acts of god, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic activity, wildfires, and other natural disasters, as well as man-made disasters and the spread of contagious diseases in locations where we own, manage, or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of guests, and these circumstances could continue or worsen in the future to an extent and for durations that we are not able to predict. actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil or geopolitical strife, and other acts of violence could have a similar effect. any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for lodging, limit the prices that we can obtain, or increase our operating costs, all of which could adversely affect our profits. if a terrorist event or other incident of violence were to involve one or more of our branded properties, demand for our properties in particular could suffer, which could further hurt our revenues and profits. disagreements with owners of hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or delay implementation of product or service initiatives. consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. the nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product, service or systems initiatives, the timing and amount of capital investments, and reimbursement for certain system initiatives and costs. such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are weaker. we seek to resolve any disagreements to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners, franchisees, and joint venture partners, but we cannot always do so. failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. if any such litigation results in an adverse judgment, settlement, or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. our business depends on the quality and reputation of our company and our brands, and any deterioration could adversely impact our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. certain events, including those that may be beyond our control, could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. many other factors also can influence our reputation and the value of our brands, including service, food quality and safety, safety of our guests and associates, availability and management of scarce natural resources, supply chain management, diversity, human rights, and support for local communities. reputational value is also based on perceptions, and broad access to social media makes it easy for anyone to provide public feedback that can influence perceptions of us, our brands and our hotels, and it may be difficult to control or effectively manage negative publicity, regardless of whether it is accurate. while reputations may take decades to build, negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse mainstream and social media publicity, governmental investigations or penalties, or litigation. negative incidents could lead to tangible adverse effects on our business, including lost sales, boycotts, reduced enrollment and/or participation in our loyalty program , disruption of access to our websites and reservation systems, loss of development opportunities, or associate retention and recruiting difficulties. any material decline in the reputation or perceived quality of our brands or corporate image could affect our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. if our brands, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant non-cash charges to earnings. as of december 31, 2019 , we had $17.7 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets. we review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate 12 table of contents impairment may have occurred. estimated fair values of our brands or reporting units could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in guests' perception and the reputation of our brands, or changes in interest rates, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. actions by our franchisees and licensees or others could adversely affect our image and reputation. we franchise and license many of our brand names and trademarks to third parties for lodging, timeshare, residential, and our credit card programs. under the terms of their agreements with us, these parties interact directly with guests and others under our brand and trade names. if these third parties fail to maintain or act in accordance with applicable brand standards; experience operational problems, including any data incident involving guest information or a circumstance involving guest or associate health or safety; or project a brand image inconsistent with ours, our image and reputation could suffer. although our agreements with these parties provide us with recourse and remedies in the event of a breach, including termination of the agreements under certain circumstances, it could be expensive or time consuming for us to pursue such remedies . we also cannot assure you that in every instance a court would ultimately enforce our contractual termination rights or that we could collect any awarded damages from the defaulting party. collective bargaining activity and strikes could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs, and interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies . a significant number of associates at our managed, leased, and owned hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements. if relationships with our organized associates or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we operate could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts, and public demonstrations, as we saw in the fourth quarter of 2018 . numerous collective bargaining agreements are typically subject to negotiation each year, and our past ability to resolve such negotiations does not mean that we will resolve future negotiations without strikes, disruptions, or on terms that we consider reasonable. labor disputes and disruptions have in the past, and could in the future, result in adverse publicity and adversely affect operations and revenues at affected hotels. in addition, labor disputes and disruptions could harm our relationship with our associates, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities, harm our relationships with our guests and customers, divert management attention, and reduce customer demand for our services, all of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs, and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by our third-party property owners and franchisees. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. if we cannot attract and retain talented associates, or if we lose the services of senior executives, our business could suffer. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. if we cannot recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. a shortage of skilled labor could also result in higher wages that would increase our labor costs, which could reduce our profits. in addition, the efforts and abilities of our senior executives are important elements of maintaining our competitive position and driving future growth, and if we lose the services of one or more of our senior executives, we could experience challenges executing our business strategies or other adverse effects on our business. damage to, or losses involving, properties that we own, manage, or franchise may not be covered by insurance, or the cost of such insurance could increase. we require comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our managed, leased, and owned properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary. we require managed hotel owners to procure such coverage or we procure such coverage on their behalf. we also require our franchisees to maintain similar levels of insurance. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we, our hotel owners, or our franchisees can obtain, or our or their ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, terrorist acts, or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of information systems, may result in high deductibles, low limits, or may be uninsurable or the cost of obtaining insurance may be unacceptably high. as a result, we, our hotel owners and our franchisees may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels, or may not be successful in obtaining insurance at all. for example, in 2018 and 2019 substantial increases in property insurance costs occurred due to the severe and widespread 13 table of contents damage caused by the 2017 atlantic hurricane season and other natural disasters coupled with continued large global losses in the property market in 2018. also, due to the data security incident and the state of the cyber insurance market generally, the costs for our cyber insurance increased for our policy period beginning in the 2019 third quarter, and the cost of such insurance could continue to increase in future years. further, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we, our hotel owners, or our franchisees carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of any lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, our revenues and profits could be adversely affected, and for properties we own or lease, we could lose some or all of the capital that we have invested in the property and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations. development and financing risks while we are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, our hotel owners depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels, and our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary. both we and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money to fund new hotel investments, as well as to refurbish and improve existing hotels. the availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we exert little control. obtaining financing on attractive terms may be constrained by the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. in addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable. our growth strategy for adding lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. the terms of our management agreements and franchise agreements for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. we cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy and rate, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and demand for construction resources. our development and renovation activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks. we occasionally develop, or acquire and renovate, hotel and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. as demonstrated by the impairment charges that we recorded in 2014 and 2015 in connection with our development and construction of three edition hotels and residences, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) any future weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop or renovate could become less attractive due to decreases in demand for hotel properties, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays or cost overruns, including those due to shortages or increased costs of skilled labor and/or materials, lender financial defaults, or so called acts of god such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for any projects that we do not pursue to completion. our owned properties and other real estate investments subject us to numerous risks . we have a number of owned and leased properties, which are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property. we are actively pursuing sales of some of these properties, but equity real estate investments can be difficult to sell quickly, and we may not be able to do so at prices we find acceptable or at all. moreover, the investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated, if any, by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. a variety of other factors also affect income from properties and real estate values, including local market conditions and new supply of hotels, availability and costs of staffing, governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels, and the availability of financing. for example, new or existing real estate or tax laws can make it more expensive to acquire, develop, or operate and/or expand, modify, or renovate hotels. when interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding, or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult 14 table of contents both to acquire and to sell real property. finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property, sometimes for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. despite our asset-light strategy, our real estate properties could be impacted by any of these factors, resulting in a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. if our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including needed capital expenditures, our income could be adversely affected or we could be required to record significant non-cash impairment charges to our results of operations. development and other investing activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes and may decrease our ability to manage risk. we have from time to time invested, and may continue to invest, in partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties. these investments generally include some form of shared control over the development of the asset or operations of the business and create added risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, could have or develop business interests, policies, or objectives that are inconsistent with ours, could take action without our approval (or, conversely, prevent us from taking action without our partner's approval), or could make requests contrary to our policies or objectives. should a venture partner become bankrupt we could become liable for our partner's share of the venture's liabilities. actions by a co-venturer might subject the assets owned by the venture or partnership to additional risk, such as increased project costs, project delays, or operational difficulties following project completion. disagreements with our venture partners may result in litigation. these risks may be more likely to occur in difficult business environments. we cannot assure you that our investments through partnerships or joint ventures will be successful in light of these risks. risks associated with development and sale of residential properties associated with our lodging properties or brands may reduce our profits. we participate, through licensing agreements or directly or through noncontrolling interests, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including residences and condominiums under many of our luxury and premium brand names and trademarks. such projects pose further risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging business, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including risks that (1) weakness in residential real estate and demand generally may reduce our profits and could make it more difficult to convince future development partners of the value added by our brands; (2) increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or the tax benefits of mortgage financing or residential ownership generally, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and (3) residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims or claims related to purchaser deposits, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. some hotel openings in our development pipeline and approved projects may be delayed or not result in new hotels, which could adversely affect our growth prospects. we report a significant number of hotels in our development pipeline, including hotels under construction and under signed contracts, as well as hotels approved for development but not yet under contract. the eventual opening of such pipeline hotels and, in particular the approved hotels that are not yet under contract, is subject to numerous risks, including in some cases the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing or governmental or regulatory approvals, increased construction costs, changes in lodging supply dynamics in individual markets, or disruptive conditions in global, regional, or local markets. we have seen construction timelines for pipeline hotels lengthen due to competition for skilled construction labor and disruption in the supply chain for materials, and these circumstances could continue or worsen in the future. accordingly, we cannot assure you that all of our development pipeline will result in new hotels entering our system, or that those hotels will open when we anticipate. losses on loans or loan guarantees that we have made to third parties impact our profits. at times, we make loans for hotel development, acquisition or renovation expenditures when we enter into or amend management or franchise agreements. from time to time we also provide third-party lenders with financial guarantees for the timely repayment of all or a portion of debt related to hotels that we manage or franchise, generally subject to an obligation that the owner reimburse us for any fundings. we could suffer losses if hotel owners or franchisees default on loans that we provide or fail to reimburse us for loan guarantees that we have funded. if owners of hotels that we manage or franchise cannot repay or refinance mortgage loans secured by their properties, our revenues and profits could decrease and our business could be harmed. the owners of many of our managed or franchised properties have pledged their hotels as collateral for mortgage loans that they entered into when those properties were purchased or refinanced. if those owners cannot repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, the lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt, and repossess the property. such sales or repossessions could, in some cases, result in the termination of our management or franchise agreements and eliminate our anticipated income and cash flows, which could negatively affect our results of operations. 15 table of contents changes affecting the availability of the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) may have consequences that we cannot yet reasonably predict. we are a party to various agreements and other instruments where obligations by or to us are calculated based on or otherwise dependent on libor. in july 2017, the u.k. financial conduct authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for calculation of libor after 2021. as a result, libor may perform differently than in the past and may ultimately cease to be utilized or to exist, either before or after 2021. alternative benchmark rate(s) may replace libor and could affect our agreements that rely on libor, not all of which contain alternative rate provisions. we are still in the process of investigating which of our agreements rely on libor and, at this time, it is not possible for us to predict the effect of any changes to libor, any phase out of libor, or any establishment of alternative benchmark rates. there is uncertainty about how we, the financial markets, applicable law and the courts will address the replacement of libor with alternative rates on contracts that do not include alternative rate provisions. in addition, any changes to benchmark rates may have an uncertain impact on our cost of funds, our receipts or payments under agreements that rely on libor, and the valuation of derivative or other contracts to which we are a party, any of which could impact our results of operations and cash flows. technology, information protection, and privacy risks a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. the lodging industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management, property management, human resources and payroll systems, our loyalty program , and technologies we make available to our guests and for our associates. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis, and our business could suffer if we cannot do that as quickly or effectively as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. an increase in the use of third-party internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business. some of our hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries such as expedia.com , priceline.com , booking.com , travelocity.com , and orbitz.com , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. these intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. although our best rate guarantee and member rate programs have helped limit guest preference shift to intermediaries and greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract guests, including the purchase by certain companies of trademarked online keywords such as marriott from internet search engines such as google , bing , yahoo , and baidu to steer guests toward their websites (a practice that has been challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). our business and profitability could be harmed to the extent that online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from our direct online channels, or through their fees, increase the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. in addition, if we are not able to negotiate new agreements on satisfactory terms when our existing contracts with intermediaries (which generally have 2- to 3- year terms) come up for renewal, our business and prospects could be negatively impacted in a number of ways. for example, if newly negotiated agreements are on terms less favorable to our hotels than the expiring agreements, or if we are not able to negotiate new agreements and our hotels no longer appear on intermediary websites, our bookings could decline, our profits (and the operating profits of hotels in our system) could decline, and customers and owners may be less attracted to our brands. we may not be able to recapture or offset any such loss of business through actions we take to enhance our direct marketing and reservation channels or to rely on other channels or other intermediary websites. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of company, associate, and guest data. in the operation of our business, we collect, store, use, and transmit large volumes of data regarding associates, guests, customers, owners, licensees, franchisees, and our own business operations, including credit card numbers, reservation and loyalty data, and other personal information, in various information systems that we maintain and in systems maintained by third parties, including our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers. the integrity and protection of this data is critical to our business. if this data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. our guests and associates also have a high expectation that we, as well as our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers, will adequately protect and appropriately use their personal information. the information, security, and privacy requirements imposed by laws and governmental regulation, our contractual obligations, and the requirements of the payment card industry are also increasingly demanding in the u.s., the european union, asia, and other jurisdictions where we operate. our systems and the systems maintained or used by our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers may not be able to satisfy these changing legal and regulatory requirements and associate and guest expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time to do so. we may incur significant additional costs to meet these requirements, obligations, and 16 table of contents expectations, and in the event of alleged or actual noncompliance we may experience increased operating costs, increased exposure to fines and litigation, and increased risk of damage to our reputation and brand. the data security incident could have numerous adverse effects on our business. as a result of the data security incident, we are a party to numerous lawsuits, primarily putative class actions, brought by consumers and others in the u.s. and canada, one securities class action lawsuit in the u.s., and three shareholder derivative lawsuits in the u.s. we may be named as a party in additional lawsuits and other claims may be asserted by or on behalf of guests, customers, hotel owners, shareholders or others seeking monetary damages or other relief. a number of federal, state and foreign governmental authorities have also made inquiries, opened investigations, or requested information and/or documents related to the data security incident, including under various data protection and privacy regulations, such as the european union's general data protection regulation. responding to and resolving these lawsuits, claims and investigations could result in material remedial and other expenses which may not be covered by insurance, including any fines imposed by the information commissioner's office in the united kingdom (the ico ), as discussed in note 7 , or by regulatory authorities in various other jurisdictions. governmental authorities investigating the data security incident also may seek to impose undertakings, injunctive relief, consent decrees, or other civil or criminal penalties, which could, among other things, materially increase our data security costs or otherwise require us to alter how we operate our business. significant management time and company resources have been, and may continue to be, devoted to the data security incident. future publicity or developments related to the data security incident, including as a result of subsequent reports or regulatory actions or developments, could have a range of other adverse effects on our business or prospects, including causing or contributing to loss of consumer confidence, reduced consumer demand, reduced enrollment and/or participation in our loyalty program , loss of development opportunities, and associate retention and recruiting difficulties. insurance coverage designed to limit our exposure to losses such as those related to the data security incident may not be sufficient or available to cover all of our expenses or other losses (including the final amount of the proposed ico fine and any other fines or penalties) related to the data security incident. additional cybersecurity incidents could have adverse effects on our business. we have implemented security measures to safeguard our systems and data, and we intend to continue implementing additional measures in the future, but, as we have seen in the past, our measures may not be sufficient to maintain the confidentiality, security, or availability of the data we collect, store, and use to operate our business. measures taken by our service providers or our owners, franchisees, licensees, other business partners or their service providers also may not be sufficient. efforts to hack or circumvent security measures, efforts to gain unauthorized access to, exploit or disrupt the operation or integrity of our data or systems, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, ransomware or other malware, phishing or other types of business communications compromises, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data have impacted, and may in the future impact, our information systems and records or those of our owners, franchisees, licensees, other business partners, or service providers. our reliance on computer, internet-based, and mobile systems and communications, and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by third parties to gain unauthorized access or prevent authorized access to such systems, have greatly increased in recent years. we have experienced cyberattacks, attempts to disrupt access to our systems and data, and attempts to affect the operation or integrity of our data or systems, and the frequency and sophistication of such efforts could continue to increase. any significant theft of, unauthorized access to, compromise or loss of, loss of access to, or fraudulent use of guest, associate, owner, franchisee, licensee, or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in legal, regulatory and other consequences, including remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. depending on the nature and scope of the event, compromises in the security of our information systems or those of our owners, franchisees, licensees, other business partners, or service providers or other disruptions or compromises of data or systems could lead to an interruption in or other adverse effects on the operation of our systems or those of our owners, franchisees, licensees, other business partners, or service providers, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits, and could result in negative publicity and other adverse effects on our business, including lost sales, loss of consumer confidence, boycotts, reduced enrollment and/or participation in our loyalty program , litigation, loss of development opportunities, or associate satisfaction, retention and recruiting difficulties, all of which could materially affect our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. because we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past, additional incidents or the failure to detect and appropriately respond to additional incidents could magnify the severity of the adverse effects on our business. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage information systems change frequently, can be difficult to detect for long periods of time, and can involve difficult or prolonged assessment or remediation periods even once detected, which could also magnify the severity of these adverse effects. we cannot assure you that all potential causes of the data security incident have been identified and remediated and will not occur again; additional measures may be needed to prevent a similar incident in the future and such measures may not be sufficient to prevent other types of incidents. although we carry cyber insurance that is designed to protect us against certain losses related to cyber risks, that insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all expenses or other losses (including fines) or all types of claims that may arise in connection with 17 table of contents cyberattacks, security compromises, and other related incidents. furthermore, in the future such insurance may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. changes in privacy and data security laws could increase our operating costs, increase our exposure to fines and litigation, and adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. we are subject to numerous, complex, and frequently changing laws, regulations, and contractual obligations designed to protect personal information, including in the u.s., the european union, asia, and other jurisdictions. non-u.s. data privacy and data security laws, various u.s. federal and state laws (such as the california consumer privacy act and the new york shield act), payment card industry security standards, and other information privacy and security standards are all applicable to us. significant legislative or regulatory changes could be adopted in the future, including in reaction to the data security incident or data breaches experienced by other companies. compliance with changes in applicable data privacy laws and regulations (such as the california consumer privacy act and the new york shield act) and contractual obligations, including responding to investigations into our compliance, may restrict our business operations, increase our operating costs, increase our exposure to fines and litigation in the event of alleged non-compliance, and adversely affect our reputation. following the data security incident, the ico and certain other regulators also opened investigations into our privacy practices, including the representations in our privacy policies and how we handle individual rights requests. as a result of these investigations, we could be exposed to significant fines and remediation costs in addition to any imposed as a result of the data security incident, and adverse publicity related to the investigations could adversely affect our reputation. additionally, we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. any further restrictions in laws such as the canspam act, and various u.s. state laws (such as the california consumer privacy act and the new york shield act), or new federal or state laws on marketing and solicitation or international privacy, e-privacy, and anti-spam laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email, online advertising, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of certain products. we also obtain access to potential guests and customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships, and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists were to be prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new guests and customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. any disruption in the functioning of our reservation systems could adversely affect our performance and results. we manage global reservation systems that communicate reservations to our hotels from individuals who book reservations directly with us online, through our mobile apps, through our telephone call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel websites, and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, accuracy and efficiency of our reservation systems are critical aspects of our business and are important considerations for hotel owners when choosing our brands. our business may suffer if we fail to maintain, upgrade, or prevent disruption to our reservation systems. disruptions in or changes to our reservation systems could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. other risks ineffective internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements, reduce investor confidence, and adversely impact our stock price . as discussed in part ii, item 8 management's report on internal control over financial reporting later in this report, in the 2018 fourth quarter, we identified a material weakness in internal control related to our accounting for our loyalty program , which resulted in errors in our previously issued financial statements for the 2018 first, second, and third quarters. internal controls related to the implementation of asu 2014-09 and the accounting for our loyalty program are important to accurately reflect our financial position and results of operations in our financial reports. we are in the process of remediating the material weakness and have responded to requests from the sec for documents and information related to these matters. if the additional controls and processes that we have implemented while we work to remediate the material weakness are not sufficient, or if we identify additional control deficiencies that individually or together constitute significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, our ability to accurately record, process, and report financial information and consequently, our ability to prepare financial statements within required time periods, could be adversely affected. failure to properly remediate the material weakness or the discovery of additional control deficiencies could result in violations of applicable securities laws, stock exchange listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt agreements, subject us to litigation and investigations, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements, and adversely impact our stock price and ability to access capital markets. 18 table of contents changes in laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations, and policies in jurisdictions around the world, including those for financial reporting, taxes, healthcare, cybersecurity, privacy, climate change, and the environment. changes to such laws, regulations, or policies could reduce our profits. we also anticipate that many of the jurisdictions where we do business will continue to review taxes and other revenue raising measures, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices or reduce our profits. in particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations, or official interpretations in ways that could significantly impact us, and other modifications could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our operations or could require costly changes to those operations or the way in which they are structured. we could be subject to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to a variety of taxes in the u.s. (federal, state, and local) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. we may recognize additional tax expense and be subject to additional tax liabilities due to changes in laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. such changes could come about as a result of economic, political, and other conditions. our tax expense and liabilities are also affected by other factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, and changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our tax expense and liabilities. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. for example, the legislation known as the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 tax act ) requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required by u.s. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the 2017 tax act , significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. the u.s. treasury department, the u.s. internal revenue service, and other standard-setting bodies will continue to interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 tax act will be applied or otherwise administered. as future guidance is issued, we may make adjustments to amounts that we have previously recorded that may materially impact our financial statements in the period in which the adjustments are made. we are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional tax liabilities against us. developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the adequacy of our tax accruals. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical tax accruals. delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our board of directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts. under the delaware business combination statute, a shareholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without board of director consent for at least three years after the date the shareholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes for mergers and similar transactions. in addition, our board of directors could, without shareholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a shareholder rights plan. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, stock prices, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. we manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. we do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how we manage such exposure in the future. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable and floating-rate debt. changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. we are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities and fluctuations in stock price from our investment in a publicly traded company. changes in the price of the underlying stock can impact the fair value of our investment. we use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-u.s. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. as a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. see note 2 for more information on derivative instruments. 40 table of contents the following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end 2019 for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: maturities by period ($ in millions) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 there- after total carrying amount total fair value assets - maturities represent expected principal receipts, fair values represent assets. fixed-rate notes receivable $ 5 $ 3 $ 3 $ 1 $ 1 $ 31 $ 44 $ 44 average interest rate 1.27 % floating-rate notes receivable $ 4 $ 29 $ 25 $ 1 $ 7 $ 16 $ 82 $ 77 average interest rate 4.36 % liabilities - maturities represent expected principal payments, fair values represent liabilities. fixed-rate debt $ (422 ) $ (859 ) $ (1,107 ) $ (686 ) $ (14 ) $ (2,543 ) $ (5,631 ) $ (5,880 ) average interest rate 3.44 % floating-rate debt $ (549 ) $ (299 ) $ (543 ) $ $ (3,761 ) $ $ (5,152 ) $ (5,179 ) average interest rate 2.30 % 41 table of contents