risk factors 13 risk factors the company's board of directors has established a risk oversight committee and an enterprise risk management policy and has appointed an enterprise risk management committee to oversee and implement the policy. in addition to credit and interest rate risk, the committee also monitors the following risk areas: market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk, information technology risk, strategic risk, compensation-related risk, and reputation risk. the following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the company including but not limited to: the company has been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. 13 table of contents the united states and many other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession. these adverse economic conditions have negatively affected the company's assets, including its loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. in response to the economic crisis, the united states and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. these programs and policies appear to have had a stabilizing effect in the united states following the severe financial crisis that occurred in the second half of 2008, but adverse economic conditions continue to exist in the united states and globally. concerns about the european union's sovereign debt crisis have continued to cause uncertainty for financial markets globally. it is possible economic conditions may again become more severe or that adverse economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. in addition, economic uncertainty resulting from possible changes in the ratings of sovereign debt issued by the united states and other nations, and fiscal imbalances in the united states, at federal, state and municipal levels, in the european union and in other countries, combined with political difficulties in resolving these imbalances, may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic conditions faced by the company and its customers. any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions, including a recession or continued weak economic recovery, would adversely affect the company. our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. we, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft of proprietary company or customer data. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. the regulation of incentive compensation under the dodd-frank act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. the bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. these regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel. if we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. stress testing and capital management under dodd-frank may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets. under stress testing and capital management standards implemented by bank regulatory agencies under dodd-frank, we may declare dividends, repurchase common stock, redeem preferred stock and debt, access capital markets for certain types of capital, make acquisitions, and enter into similar transactions only with bank regulatory approval. any transactions not contemplated in our annual capital plan will require frb approval. these limitations may significantly limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments. the dodd-frank act imposes significant new limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs. the dodd-frank act has material implications for the company and the entire financial services industry. the act places significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions, including the company, with more than $50 billion of assets. in addition, among other things, the act: 14 table of contents affects the levels of capital and liquidity with which the company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels (including a phased-in elimination of the company's existing trust preferred securities as tier 1 capital); subjects the company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the fdic; impacts the company's ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; impacts a number of the company's business and risk management strategies; regulates the pricing of certain of our products and services and restricts the revenue that the company generates from certain businesses; subjects the company to new capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital-raising; subjects the company to supervision by the consumer financial protection bureau, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; grants authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks; subjects the company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and limits the amount and manner of compensation paid to executive officers and employees generally. because the responsible agencies are still in the process of proposing and finalizing many of the regulations required under the dodd-frank act, the full impact of this legislation on the company, its business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for some time. individually and collectively, regulations adopted under the dodd-frank act may materially adversely affect the company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. u.s. regulatory agencies, in response to the adoption of basel iii and title i of the dodd-frank act, will require us to raise our capital and liquidity to levels that may exceed those that the market considers to be optimal. basel iii was adopted in december 2010, and was updated in january 2013, by the bcbs and provides an international framework for the establishment of bank capital and liquidity standards. title i of the dodd-frank act requires that banking organizations of our size undergo regular stress testing of their capital, assets and profitability and authorizes bank regulatory agencies to promulgate new capital and liquidity standards. in 2012, the u.s. bank regulatory agencies published proposed regulations that, consistent with basel iii and the dodd-frank act, would redefine the components of capital and require higher capital ratios for all banking organizations. the u.s. banking agencies are currently developing proposed rules to implement the basel iii liquidity framework for u.s. banking organizations. maintaining higher capital and liquidity levels may reduce our profitability and performance measures. economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the company. the company's subsidiary banks must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by their banking regulators which can change depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. compliance with capital requirements may limit the company's ability to expand and has required, and may require, capital investment from the parent. these uncertainties and risks created by the legislative and regulatory uncertainties discussed above may themselves increase the company's cost of capital and other financing costs. credit quality has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. although most credit quality indicators continued to improve during 2012, the company's credit quality may continue to show weakness in some loan types and markets in which the company operates as the economic recovery progresses. 15 table of contents if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we and our subsidiary banks conduct operations decline further, this could result in, among other things, further deterioration in credit quality and/or continued reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses; if such developments occur, we may be required to raise additional capital. failure to effectively manage our credit concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect us. increases in concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the company. concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the company due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk, but it is routinely monitored and analyzed. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the company's revenue. the management of interest rate risk for the company and its subsidiary banks is centralized and overseen by an asset liability management committee appointed by the company's board of directors. we have been successful in our interest rate risk management as evidenced by achieving a relatively stable net interest margin over the last several years when interest rates have been volatile and the rate environment challenging; however, a failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. factors beyond the company's control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company's risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates subject to general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. the company remains in an asset sensitive interest rate risk position, and the frb has stated its expectations that short-term interest rates may remain low until unemployment is reduced to below 6.5% or inflationary expectations exceed 2.5%. such a scenario may continue to create or exacerbate margin compression for us as a result of repricing of longer-term loans. our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. we are required to maintain certain capital levels in accordance with banking regulations and any capital requirements imposed by our regulators. we must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding, and liquidity has been and could continue to be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate and deteriorating economic and market conditions. each of our subsidiary banks must remain well-capitalized and meet certain other requirements for us to retain our status as a financial holding company. failure to comply with those requirements could result in a loss of our financial holding company status if such conditions are not corrected within 180 days or such longer period as may be permitted by the frb, although we do not believe that the loss of such status would have an appreciable effect on our operations or financial results. in addition, failure by our bank subsidiaries to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements can result in certain activity restrictions or a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities that include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital and the termination of deposit insurance by the fdic. 16 table of contents funding availability continued to improve during 2012. however, because liquidity stresses are often a consequence of the occurrence of other risks, they will continue to be a risk factor in 2013 and beyond for the company, the parent and its subsidiary banks. the quality and liquidity of our asset-backed investment securities portfolio has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. the company's asset-backed investment securities portfolio includes collateralized debt obligations collateralized by trust preferred securities issued by bank holding companies, insurance companies, and reits that may have some exposure to construction loan, commercial real estate, and the subprime markets and/or to other categories of distressed assets. in addition, asset-backed securities also include structured asset-backed cdos (also known as diversified structured finance cdos) which have exposure to subprime and home equity mortgage securitizations. many factors, some of which are beyond the company's control, significantly influence the fair value and impairment status of these securities. these factors include, but are not limited to, prepayments, defaults, deferrals and restructurings by debt issuers, the views of banking regulators, changes in our accounting treatment with respect to these securities, rating agency downgrades of securities, lack of market pricing of securities, or the return of market pricing that varies from the company's current model valuations, and changes in prepayment rates and future interest rates. for example, during the fourth quarter of 2012, we disclosed our expectation that increased prepayments experienced in our cdo portfolio during the fourth quarter would lead to higher other-than-temporary impairment charges as a result of the use of higher constant prepayment rate speeds in our valuation models for these securities. additionally we also disclosed that, following discussions with federal banking regulators, we were reviewing assumptions in our valuation models for certain bank holding company trust preferred securities that underlie certain of our cdo securities namely, those that are currently deferring distributions and nearing the end of their deferral periods. we disclosed that, in combination with the effect of the higher cpr speeds, this could lead to the incurrence of significant otti in our cdo portfolio. the occurrence of one or more of these factors could result in additional otti charges with respect to our cdo portfolio, which could be material. see investment securities portfolio on page 49 for further details. we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates, and particular classes of securities that we and our affiliates issue. the interest rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates, and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. in the past, rating agencies have downgraded our credit ratings. further downgrades to us, our affiliates, or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities. we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. the administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the company to comply before their formal adoption. the company provides to its customers, invests in, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs, a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements therefore pose an ongoing risk. 17 table of contents we could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings. the company is subject to risks associated with legal claims, fines, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. the company's exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the current economic environment; new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes; and the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies. we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to continually strengthening our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. we could be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. from time to time the company makes acquisitions including the acquisition of assets and liabilities of failed banks from the fdic acting as a receiver. the fdic-supported transactions are subject to loan loss sharing agreements. failure to comply with the terms of the agreements could result in the loss of indemnification from the fdic. the success of any acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the projected cost savings from the acquisition and on the continued growth and profitability of the acquisition target. we have been successful with most prior acquisitions, but it is possible that the merger integration process with an acquired company could result in the loss of key employees, disruptions in controls, procedures and policies, or other factors that could affect our ability to realize the projected savings and successfully retain and grow the target's customer base and revenues. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 93 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 78 and is hereby incorporated by reference. 93 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors the company's board of directors has established a risk oversight committee of the board and an enterprise risk management policy and has appointed an enterprise risk management committee consisting of senior management to oversee and implement the policy. in addition to credit and interest rate risk, the committee also monitors the following risk areas: strategic risk, market risk, liquidity risk, compliance risk, compensation-related risk, operational risk, information technology risk, and reputation risk. the following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the company, including but not limited to: we have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. the united states and many other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession from which it is slowly recovering. these adverse economic conditions have negatively affected the company's assets, including its loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. in response to the economic crisis, the united states and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. these programs and policies had a stabilizing effect in 13 the united states following the severe financial crisis that occurred in the second half of 2008, but troubling economic conditions continue to exist in the united states and globally. moreover, some of these programs have begun to expire and the impact of their expiration on the financial industry and economic recovery is unknown. it is possible economic conditions may again become more severe or that troubling economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. in addition, economic and fiscal conditions in the united states and other countries may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic conditions faced by the company and its customers. any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions, including a recession or continued weak economic recovery, would adversely affect the company. economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the company. our subsidiary banks must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by their banking regulators which can change depending upon general economic conditions or hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. compliance with capital requirements may limit the company's ability to expand and has required, and may require, capital investment from the parent, and the need or requirement to raise additional capital. these uncertainties and risks created by the legislative and regulatory uncertainties discussed above may themselves increase the company's cost of capital and other financing costs. our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a specific geographic region of the united states. as a regional bank holding company, the company provides a full range of banking and related services through its banking and other subsidiaries in utah, california, texas, arizona, nevada, colorado, idaho, washington, and oregon. approximately 85% of the company's total net interest income for the year ended december 31, 2013 and 77% of total assets as of december 31, 2013 relate to the subsidiary banks in utah, california and texas. as a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. accordingly, adverse economic conditions affecting these three states in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. for example, our credit risk could be elevated to the extent our lending practices in these three states focus on borrowers or groups of borrowers with similar economic characteristics that are similarly affected by the same adverse economic events. as of december 31, 2013, loan balances at our subsidiary banks in utah, california and texas comprised 81% of the company's commercial lending portfolio, 74% of the commercial real estate lending portfolio, and 69% of the consumer lending portfolio. loans originated by these banks are primarily to companies in their respective states. catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and the company. the company has significant operations and a significant customer base in utah, texas, california and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. these regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought. these types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, the company's business and customers, and have posed physical risks to the company's property. in addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on the company's customers and in turn on the company. a significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect the company's operating results. problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on us. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect 14 financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates, and particular classes of securities that we and our affiliates issue. the interest rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates, and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. downgrades to us, our affiliates, or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the company's revenue. the management of interest rate risk for the company and its subsidiary banks is centralized and overseen by an asset liability management committee appointed by the company's board of directors. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. factors beyond the company's control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company's risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest resulting from general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. the company remains in an asset sensitive interest rate risk position, and the frb has stated its expectations that short-term interest rates may remain low until unemployment is reduced to below 6.5% or inflationary expectations exceed 2.5% and perhaps beyond. such a scenario may continue to create or exacerbate margin compression for us as a result of repricing of longer-term loans and pricing pressure on new loans. our estimates of our interest rate risk position for noninterest-bearing demand deposits are dependent on assumptions for which there is little historical experience, and the actual behavior of those deposits in a changing interest rate environment may differ materially from our estimates which could materially affect our results of operations. we have experienced a low interest rate environment for the past several years. our views with respect to, among other things, the degree to which we are asset-sensitive, including our interest rate risk position for noninterest-bearing demand deposits, are dependent on modeled projections that rely on assumptions regarding changes in balances of such deposits in a changing interest rate environment. because there is no modern precedent for this current prolonged low interest rate environment, there is little historical experience upon which to base such assumptions. if interest rates begin to increase, our assumptions regarding changes in balances of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and regarding the speed and degree to which other deposits are repriced may prove to be incorrect, and business decisions made in reliance on our modeled projections and underlying assumptions could prove to be unsuccessful. because noninterest-bearing demand deposits are a significant portion of our deposit base, errors in our modeled projections and the underlying assumptions could materially affect our results of operations. as a regulated entity, we are subject to capital and liquidity requirements that may limit our operations and potential growth. we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company. as such, we and our subsidiary banks are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the federal reserve board, the occ (in the case of our national subsidiary banks) and the fdic, including risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements, and basel iii liquidity requirements. capital needs may rise above normal levels when we experience deteriorating earnings and credit quality, and our banking regulators may increase our capital requirements based on general economic conditions and our particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. in addition, we may be required to increase our capital levels even in the absence of actual adverse economic conditions or forecasts as a result of stress testing and capital planning based on hypothetical future adverse 15 economic scenarios. compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain present business levels. for a summary of recently announced capital rules, see basel iii in capital management on page 91 of md&amp;a in this form 10-k. the regulation of incentive compensation under the dodd-frank act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. the bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. these regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel. if we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. stress testing and capital management under dodd-frank may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets. under the ccar, we are required to submit to the federal reserve each year our capital plan for the applicable planning horizon, along with the results of required stress tests. each annual capital plan will, among other things, specify our planned actions with respect to dividends, redemptions, repurchases, capital raising, and similar matters and will be subject to the objection or non-objection by the federal reserve. moreover, the ccar process requires us to analyze the pro forma impact on our financial condition of various hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios selected by us or the federal reserve and to maintain or raise capital sufficient to meet our risk management and regulatory expectations under such hypothetical scenarios. similarly, stress tests required by the dodd-frank act are devised by the occ and fdic for our subsidiary banks with assets in excess of $10 billion. the severity of the hypothetical scenarios devised by the frb and other bank regulators and employed in these stress tests is undefined by law or regulation, and is thus subject solely to the discretion of the regulators. the stress testing and capital planning processes may, among other things, require us to increase our capital levels, modify our business strategies, or decrease our exposure to various asset classes. under stress testing and capital management standards implemented by bank regulatory agencies under the dodd-frank act, we may declare dividends, repurchase common stock, redeem preferred stock and debt, access capital markets for certain types of capital, make acquisitions, and enter into similar transactions only with bank regulatory approval. any transactions not contemplated in our annual capital plan will require frb approval. these requirements may significantly limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments. increases in fdic insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. our deposits are insured by the fdic up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to fdic deposit insurance assessments. during 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures dramatically increased resolution costs of the fdic and depleted the deposit insurance fund. in addition, the fdic instituted two temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at fdic insured banks. these programs, which were later extended by the dodd-frank act, have placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. in order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the fdic has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. further, on january 12, 2010, the fdic requested comments on a proposed rule tying assessment rates of fdic-insured institutions to the institution's employee compensation programs. the exact requirements of such a rule are not yet known, but such a rule could increase the amount of premiums we must pay for fdic insurance. further, as described below, under the dodd-frank act, the fdic must undertake several initiatives that will result in higher deposit insurance fees being paid to the fdic. for example, an fdic final rule issued on february 7, 2011 revises the assessment system applicable to large banks and implements the use of assets as the base for deposit insurance assessments instead of domestic deposits. we are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for fdic insurance. these announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of fdic insurance premiums or special assessments may adversely impact our earnings. 16 the dodd-frank act imposes significant limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs. the dodd-frank act has material implications for the company and the entire financial services industry. the act places significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions, including the company, particularly those with more than $50 billion of assets. in addition, among other things, the act: affects the levels of capital and liquidity with which the company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels (including a phased-in elimination of the company's existing trust preferred securities as tier 1 capital); subjects the company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the fdic; impacts the company's ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; impacts a number of the company's business strategies; requires us to develop substantial heightened risk management policies and infrastructure; regulates the pricing of certain of our products and services and restricts the revenue that the company generates from certain businesses; subjects the company to new capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital-raising; subjects the company to supervision by the cfpb, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; grants authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks; subjects the company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and limits the manner in which compensation is paid to executive officers and employees generally. the company has incurred and will continue to incur substantial personnel, systems, consulting, and other costs in order to comply with new regulations promulgated under the dodd-frank act, particularly with respect to stress testing and risk management. because the responsible agencies are still in the process of proposing and finalizing many of the regulations required under the dodd-frank act, the full impact of this legislation on the company, its business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for some time. individually and collectively, regulations adopted under the dodd-frank act may materially adversely affect the company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. other legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our operations. in addition to the dodd-frank act described above, bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or are considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation. there can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory changes or actions will ultimately be adopted. however, if adopted, some of these proposals could adversely affect the company by, among other things: impacting after tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting the company's ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of the company's funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that the company could offer; and requiring the company to raise capital at inopportune times. the ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted, as it is unclear which, if any, may be adopted. we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. the administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the company to comply before their formal adoption. 17 the company provides to its customers, invests in, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs, a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements therefore pose an ongoing risk. we could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings. we are subject to risks associated with legal claims, fines, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. the company's exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the past or current economic environments, new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes, the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies, and increasingly aggressive enforcement and legal actions against banking organizations. credit quality has adversely affected us and may adversely affect us in the future. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we and our subsidiary banks conduct operations declined, this could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. failure to effectively manage our credit concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect us. increases in concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the company. concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the company due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk. the quality and liquidity of our asset-backed investment securities portfolio has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. the company's asset-backed investment securities portfolio includes cdos collateralized by trust preferred securities issued by bank holding companies, and insurance companies. many factors, some of which are beyond the company's control, significantly influence the fair value and impairment status of these securities. these factors include, but are not limited to, defaults, deferrals, and restructurings by debt issuers, the views of banking regulators, changes in our accounting treatment with respect to these securities, rating agency downgrades of securities, lack of market pricing of securities, or the return of market pricing that varies from the company's current model valuations, and changes in prepayment rates and future interest rates. the occurrence of one or more of these factors could result in additional otti charges with respect to our cdo portfolio, which could be material. the company may not be able to utilize the significant deferred tax asset recorded on its balance sheet. the company's balance sheet includes a significant deferred tax asset. the largest components of this asset result from additions to our allowance for loan and lease losses for purposes of generally accepted accounting principles in excess of loan losses actually taken for tax purposes and other than temporary impairment losses taken on our securities portfolio that have not yet been realized for tax purposes by selling the securities. our ability to continue to record this deferred tax asset is dependent on the company's ability to realize its value through net operating loss carry-backs or future projected earnings. loss of part or all of this asset would adversely impact tangible capital. in addition, inclusion of this asset in determining regulatory capital is subject to certain limitations. there are immaterial amounts of deferred tax assets disallowed for regulatory purposes at some of the company's subsidiary banks. no deferred tax assets are disallowed at the parent level. we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a 18 significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. we, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft of proprietary company or customer data. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. we are making a significant investment to replace our core loan and deposit systems and to upgrade our accounting systems. the actual duration, cost, expected savings, and other factors to implement these initiatives may vary significantly from our estimates, which could materially affect the company, including its results of operations. during the second quarter of 2013, our board of directors approved a significant investment by us to replace our loan and deposit systems and to upgrade our accounting systems. the new integrated system for most of our loans and deposits is expected to employ technology that is a significant improvement over our current systems. these initiatives will be completed in phases to allow for appropriate testing and implementation so as to minimize time delays and cost overruns. however, these initiatives are in the early stages of development and by their very nature, projections of duration, cost, expected savings, and related items are subject to change and significant variability. we may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these initiatives. these may include significant time delays, cost overruns, and other adverse developments that could result in disruptions to our systems and adversely impact our customers. we have plans, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these adverse developments. however, there can be no assurance that any such adverse developments will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately remediated. the occurrence of any adverse development could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect the company, including its results of operations in any given reporting period. our results of operations depend upon the performance of our subsidiaries. we are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our banking and other subsidiaries. we receive substantially all of our revenues from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. we and certain of our subsidiaries have experienced periods of unprofitability or reduced profitability since the financial crisis. the ability of the company and our subsidiary banks to pay dividends is restricted by regulatory requirements, including profitability and the need to maintain required levels of capital. lack of profitability or reduced profitability exposes us to the risk that regulators could restrict the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends. it also increases the risk that the company may have to establish a valuation allowance against its net deferred tax asset. the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends or make other payments to us is also limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on their dividends. if they do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we may be unable to pay interest on our indebtedness. the occ, the primary regulator for certain of our subsidiary banks, has issued policy statements generally requiring 19 insured banks only to pay dividends out of current earnings. in addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, which could include the payment of dividends, such authority may take actions requiring that such bank refrain from the practice. payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if a subsidiary bank were to become under-capitalized for purposes of the applicable federal regulatory prompt corrective action regulations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 95 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 78 and is hereby incorporated by reference. 95risk factors 13 risk factors the company's board of directors has established a risk oversight committee of the board, approved an enterprise risk management policy, and appointed an enterprise risk management committee consisting of senior management to oversee and implement the policy. in addition to credit and interest rate risk, these committees also monitor the following risk areas: strategic risk, market risk, liquidity risk, compliance risk, compensation-related risk, operational risk, information technology risk, and reputation risk. the following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the company, including but not limited to: credit quality has adversely affected us and may adversely affect us in the future. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we and our subsidiary banks conduct operations declined, this could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. we have concentrations of risk in our loan portfolio, including loans secured by real estate and energy-related lending, which may have unique risk characteristics that may adversely affect our results. concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the company. concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the company due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk. most of our subsidiary banks engage in both commercial term and land acquisition, development and construction lending, primarily in our western states footprint, and the company as a whole has relatively larger concentrations of such lending than many peer institutions. in addition, we have a concentration in energy-related lending, primarily in our amegy bank subsidiary. both commercial real estate and energy lending are subject to specific risks, including volatility and potential significant and prolonged declines in collateral values and activity levels. in addition, our real estate lending is concentrated in the western states, and values there may behave differently than in other parts of the united states. we may have other unidentified concentrated or correlated risks in our loan portfolio. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the company's revenue. the management of interest rate risk for the company and its subsidiary banks is centralized and overseen by an asset liability management committee appointed by the company's board of directors. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. factors beyond the company's control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company's risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest resulting from general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. 13 table of contents the company remains in an asset sensitive interest rate risk position, which means that net interest income would be expected to increase if interest rates increase, and to decline if interest rates decrease. most recently, the frb has indicated that it expects to be patient with respect to the timing and amount of any rate increases. our estimates of our interest rate risk position for noninterest-bearing demand deposits are dependent on assumptions for which there is little historical experience, and the actual behavior of those deposits in a changing interest rate environment may differ materially from our estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations. we have experienced a low interest rate environment for the past several years. our views with respect to, among other things, the degree to which we are asset-sensitive, including our interest rate risk position for noninterest-bearing demand deposits, are dependent on modeled projections that rely on assumptions regarding changes in balances of such deposits in a changing interest rate environment. because there is no modern precedent for the prolonged, extremely low interest rate environment that has prevailed for the last several years, there is little historical experience upon which to base such assumptions. if interest rates begin to increase, our assumptions regarding changes in balances of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and regarding the speed and degree to which other deposits are repriced may prove to be incorrect, and business decisions made in reliance on our modeled projections and underlying assumptions could prove to be unsuccessful. because noninterest-bearing demand deposits are a significant portion of our deposit base, errors in our modeled projections and the underlying assumptions could materially affect our results of operations. we have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. the united states and many other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession from which the recovery has been slow. these adverse economic conditions have negatively affected the company's assets, including its loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. in response to the economic crisis, the united states and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. while these programs and policies may have had a stabilizing effect in the united states following the severe financial crisis that occurred in the second half of 2008, troubling economic conditions continue to exist in the united states and globally. most of these programs have expired, however, the frb and central banks in other countries continue to pursue monetary policies that have resulted in an unusual period of very low interest rates. however, the full impact of these policies on, among other things, general economic activity and asset values that serve as collateral for loans extended by the company, for example, real estate values, how long these policies may persist, and the impacts of withdrawing those policies, is unclear and may not be known for some time. it is possible that economic conditions may again become more severe or that weak economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. economic and fiscal conditions in the united states and other countries may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic and market conditions faced by the company and its customers. any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions, including a recession or continued weak economic recovery, would adversely affect the company. economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the company. the company and its subsidiary banks must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by their banking regulators, which can change depending upon general economic conditions, hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios, and the particular conditions, risk profiles and growth plans of those entities. compliance with capital requirements may limit the company's ability to expand and has required, and may require, the company to raise additional capital, or additional capital investment from the parent or its subsidiaries. these uncertainties and risks, including those created by legislative and regulatory uncertainties, may increase the company's cost of capital and other financing costs. our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a specific geographic region of the united states. as a regional bank holding company, the company provides a full range of banking and related services through its banking and other subsidiaries in arizona, california, colorado, idaho, nevada, new mexico, 14 table of contents oregon, texas, utah, washington, and wyoming. approximately 82% of the company's total net interest income for the year ended december 31, 2014 and 77% of total assets as of december 31, 2014 relate to the subsidiary banks in utah, texas and california. as a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. accordingly, adverse economic conditions affecting these three states in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. for example, our credit risk could be elevated to the extent that our lending practices in these three states focus on borrowers or groups of borrowers with similar economic characteristics, which are similarly affected by the same adverse economic events. as of december 31, 2014 , loan balances at our subsidiary banks in utah, texas and california comprised 82% of the company's commercial lending portfolio, 75% of the commercial real estate lending portfolio, and 69% of the consumer lending portfolio. loans originated by these banks are primarily to borrowers in their respective states, with the exception of the national real estate group owner-occupied loan portfolio held by our utah subsidiary bank. catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and the company. the company has significant operations and a significant customer base in utah, texas, california and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. these regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought. these types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, the company's business and customers, and have posed physical risks to the company's property. in addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on the company's customers and in turn on the company. a significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect the company's operating results. problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on us. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates, and particular classes of securities that we and our affiliates issue. the rates that we pay on our securities also are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates, and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. ratings downgrades to us, our affiliates, or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities. the dodd-frank act imposes significant limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs. the dodd-frank act has material implications for the company and the entire financial services industry. the dodd-frank act places significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions, particularly those with more than $50 billion of assets, including the company. in addition, among other things, the dodd-frank act: affects the levels of capital and liquidity with which the company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels (including a phased-in elimination of the company's existing trust preferred securities as tier 1 capital); 15 table of contents subjects the company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the fdic; impacts the company's ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; impacts a number of the company's business strategies; requires us to incur the cost of developing substantial heightened risk management policies and infrastructure; regulates the pricing of certain of our products and services and restricts the revenue that the company generates from certain businesses; subjects the company to new capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital-raising; subjects the company to supervision by the cfpb, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; grants authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks; subjects the company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and limits the manner in which compensation is paid to executive officers and employees generally. the company and the entire financial services industry have incurred and will continue to incur substantial personnel, systems, consulting, and other costs in order to comply with new regulations promulgated under the dodd-frank act, particularly with respect to stress testing and risk management. because the responsible agencies are still in the process of proposing and finalizing many of the regulations required under the dodd-frank act, the full impact of this legislation on the company and the financial services industries, business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for some time. individually and collectively, regulations adopted under the dodd-frank act may materially adversely affect the company's and the financial services industry's business, financial condition (including the company's ability to compete effectively with less regulated financial services providers), and results of operations. as a regulated entity, we are subject to capital and liquidity requirements that may limit our operations and potential growth. we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company. as such, we and our subsidiary banks are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the frb, the occ (in the case of our national subsidiary banks) and the fdic, including risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements, and basel iii liquidity requirements. capital needs may rise above normal levels when we experience deteriorating earnings and credit quality, and our banking regulators may increase our capital requirements based on general economic conditions and our particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. in addition, we may be required to increase our capital levels even in the absence of actual adverse economic conditions or forecasts as a result of stress testing and capital planning based on hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios. compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain present business levels. for a summary of recently announced capital rules, see capital standards basel framework in supervision and regulation on page 8 of md&amp;a in this form 10-k. stress testing and capital management under the dodd-frank act may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets. under the ccar, we are required to submit to the federal reserve each year our capital plan for the applicable planning horizon, along with the results of required stress tests. each annual capital plan will, among other things, specify our planned actions with respect to dividends, redemptions, repurchases, capital raising, and similar matters and will be subject to the objection or non-objection by the federal reserve. moreover, the ccar process requires us to analyze the pro forma impact on our financial condition of various hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios selected by us or the federal reserve. we must maintain or raise capital sufficient to meet our risk management and regulatory expectations under such hypothetical scenarios. similarly, dodd-frank act stress tests ( dfast ) are stress tests run by the federal reserve using its 16 table of contents proprietary models to analyze the company's stressed capital position. in order to receive a non-objection from the federal reserve to its capital plan, it must pass both the federal reserve's quantitatively modeled stress capital and a qualitative examination of its ccar submission and capital plan. as required by the dodd-frank act we also submit stress tests to the occ (for amegy and zions) and fdic (for cb&amp;t) for our subsidiary banks with assets in excess of $10 billion. the severity of the hypothetical scenarios devised by the frb and other bank regulators and employed in these stress tests is undefined by law or regulation, and is thus subject solely to the discretion of the regulators. the stress testing and capital planning processes may, among other things, require us to increase our capital levels, limit our dividends or other capital distributions to shareholders, modify our business strategies, or decrease our exposure to various asset classes. under stress testing and capital management standards implemented by bank regulatory agencies under the dodd-frank act, we may declare dividends, repurchase common stock, redeem preferred stock and debt, access capital markets for certain types of capital, make acquisitions, and enter into similar transactions only if included in a capital plan to which the frb has not objected. any similar transactions not contemplated in our annual capital plan, other than those with a de minimus impact on actual or projected capital, may require a new stress test and capital plan, which is subject to frb non-objection. these requirements may significantly limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments. we increasingly use models in the management of the company, and in particular in the required stress testing and capital plan. there is risk that these models are incorrect or inaccurate in various ways, which can cause us to make non-optimal decisions, and this risk causes the company to hold additional capital as a buffer against that risk. we attempt to carefully develop, document, back test, and validate the models used in the management of the company, including, for example, models used in the management of interest rate and liquidity risk, and those used in projecting stress losses in various segments of our credit and securities portfolios, and projecting net revenue under stress. models are inherently imperfect for a number of reasons, however, and cannot perfectly predict outcomes. management decisions based in part on such models, therefore, can be suboptimal. in addition, in determining the company's capital needs under stress testing, we attempt to specifically quantify the amounts by which model results could be incorrect, and we hold material additional amounts of capital as a buffer against this model risk. new liquidity regulations, including regulations establishing a minimum liquidity coverage ratio ( lcr ) and requiring monthly liquidity stress testing applicable to the company may impact profitability. the company is subject to new liquidity regulations, including a requirement that it conduct monthly liquidity stress tests starting in january 2015, and that subject it to a new requirement that it maintain a modified lcr of at least 100% effective january 1, 2016. current liquidity stress tests indicate that the company is in compliance with the modified lcr requirement. such stress testing is subject to ongoing model and assumptions changes which could affect results. in order to meet the requirements of these new regulations, the company expects to hold a higher portion of its assets in high quality liquid assets ( hqla ) and a lower portion of its assets in loans than was generally the case prior to such regulation. hqla generally have lower yields than loans of the type made by the company. the regulation of incentive compensation under the dodd-frank act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. the bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. these regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. if we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. 17 table of contents increases in fdic insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. our deposits are insured by the fdic up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to fdic insurance assessments. during 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures dramatically increased resolution costs of the fdic and depleted the deposit insurance fund. in addition, the fdic instituted two temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at fdic insured banks. these programs, which have since expired, placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. in order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the fdic has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. further, under the dodd-frank act, the assessment base was expanded to include non-deposit liabilities. we generally have only limited ability to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay the fdic for insurance. changes in our required insurance premium payments may adversely impact our earnings. other legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our operations. in addition to the dodd-frank act described previously, bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or are considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation. there can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory changes or actions will ultimately be adopted. however, if adopted, some of these proposals could adversely affect the company by, among other things: impacting after-tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting the company's ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of the company's funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that the company could offer; and requiring the company to raise capital at inopportune times. the ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted as it is unclear which, if any, may be adopted. we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the company provides to its customers, invests in, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. the level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. the administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the company to comply before their formal adoption. identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements therefore pose an ongoing risk. we could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings. we are subject to risks associated with legal claims, fines, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. the company's exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the past or current economic environments, new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes, the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies, and increasingly aggressive enforcement and legal actions against banking organizations. the quality and liquidity of our asset-backed investment securities portfolio has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. the company's asset-backed investment securities portfolio includes cdos collateralized primarily by trust preferred securities issued by bank holding companies. many factors, some of which are beyond the company's control, significantly influence the fair value and impairment status of these securities. these factors include, but are not limited to, defaults, deferrals and restructurings by debt issuers, the views of banking regulators, changes in our accounting treatment with respect to these securities, rating agency downgrades of securities, limited market pricing of securities, or market pricing that varies from the company's current model valuations, and changes in prepayment rates and future interest rates. the occurrence of one or more of these factors could result in additional otti charges with respect to our cdo portfolio, which could be material. 18 table of contents the company may not be able to utilize the significant deferred tax asset recorded on its balance sheet. the company's balance sheet includes a significant deferred tax asset. the largest components of this asset result from additions to our allowance for loan and lease losses for purposes of generally accepted accounting principles in excess of loan losses actually taken for tax purposes and other-than-temporary impairment losses on our securities portfolio that have not yet been realized for tax purposes by selling the securities. our ability to continue to record this deferred tax asset is dependent on the company's ability to realize its value through net operating loss carrybacks or future projected earnings. loss of part or all of this asset would adversely impact tangible capital. in addition, inclusion of this asset in determining regulatory capital is subject to certain limitations. currently no deferred tax assets are disallowed for regulatory purposes either on a consolidated basis or at any of the company's subsidiary banks. we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. we, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft of proprietary company or customer data. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. we are making a significant investment to replace our core loan and deposit systems and to upgrade our accounting systems. the actual duration, cost, expected savings, and other factors to implement these initiatives may vary significantly from our estimates, which could materially affect the company, including its results of operations. during 2013, our board of directors approved a significant investment by us to replace our loan and deposit systems and to upgrade our accounting systems. the new integrated system for most of our loans and deposits is expected to employ technology that is a significant improvement over our current systems. these initiatives will be completed in phases to allow for appropriate testing and implementation so as to minimize time delays and cost overruns. however, these initiatives are in the early stages and by their very nature, projections of duration, cost, expected savings, and related items are subject to change and significant variability. we may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these initiatives. these may include significant time delays, cost overruns, and other adverse developments that could result in disruptions to our systems and adversely impact our customers. we have plans, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these adverse developments. however, there can be no assurance that any such adverse developments will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately remediated. the occurrence of any adverse development could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect the company, including its results of operations in any given reporting period. 19 table of contents our results of operations depend upon the performance of our subsidiaries. we are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our banking and other subsidiaries. the parent receives substantially all of its revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries. these dividends are a principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. we and certain of our subsidiaries experienced periods of unprofitability or reduced profitability during the recent severe recession. the ability of the company and its subsidiary banks to pay dividends is restricted by regulatory requirements, including profitability and the need to maintain required levels of capital. lack of profitability or reduced profitability exposes us to the risk that regulators could restrict the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends. it also increases the risk that the company may have to establish a valuation allowance against its net deferred tax asset or have that asset disallowed for regulatory capital purposes. the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends or make other payments to us is also limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on their dividends. if they do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we may be unable to pay interest on our indebtedness. the occ, the primary regulator for certain of our subsidiary banks, has issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks only to pay dividends out of current earnings. in addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, which could include the payment of dividends, such authority may take actions requiring that such bank refrain from the practice. payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if a subsidiary bank were to become under-capitalized for purposes of the applicable federal regulatory prompt corrective action regulations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 92 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 76 and is hereby incorporated by reference. 92 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors the company's growth strategy is driven by key factors while adhering to defined risk parameters. the key elements of zions' strategy reflect its prudent risk-taking philosophy. the company generates revenue by taking prudent and appropriately priced risks. these factors are outlined in the company's risk appetite framework. the company's board of directors has established a risk oversight committee of the board, approved an enterprise risk management framework, and appointed an enterprise risk management committee ( ermc ) consisting of senior management to oversee and implement the framework. the company's most significant risk exposure has traditionally come from the acceptance of credit risk inherent in prudent extension of credit to relationship customers. in addition to credit risk, these committees also monitor the following risk areas: market and interest rate risks, liquidity risk, strategic/business risk, operational/technology risks, model risk, capital/financial reporting risks, legal/compliance risks (including regulatory risk), and reputational risk as outlined in the company's risk taxonomy. additional governance and oversight includes board-approved policies and management committees with direct focus on these specific risk categories. the following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the company, including but not limited to: credit risk credit quality has adversely affected us in the past and may adversely affect us in the future. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations declined, this could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses ( alll ). we have concentrations of risk in our loan portfolio, including loans secured by real estate and oil and gas-related lending, which may have unique risk characteristics that may adversely affect our results. given the current volatility in oil prices and the potential for oil prices to remain low for an extended period of time, zions bancorporation's credit exposure in oil and gas could be adversely impacted. we have heightened our oversight of this credit exposure and have taken proactive steps to effectively manage this book of business. concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the company. concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the company due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk. 13 table of contents we engage in commercial construction and land acquisition and development lending, as well as commercial term lending, primarily in our western states footprint. the company, as a whole, has relatively larger concentrations of such lending than many other peer institutions. in addition, we have a concentration in oil and gas-related lending, primarily in texas at amegy. both commercial real estate ( cre ) and oil and gas lending are subject to specific risks, including volatility and potential significant and prolonged declines in collateral values and activity levels. in addition, our real estate lending is concentrated in the western states, and values there may behave differently than in other parts of the united states. we may have other unidentified concentrated or correlated risks in our loan portfolio. our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a specific geographic region of the united states. as a regional bank holding company, the company provides a full range of banking and related services through its local management teams and unique brands in arizona, california, colorado, idaho, nevada, new mexico, oregon, texas, utah, washington, and wyoming. approximately 80% of the company's total net interest income for the year ended december 31, 2015, and 77% of total assets as of december 31, 2015 relate to our banking operations in utah, texas, and california. this is compared to 82% of the company's total net interest income for the year ended december 31, 2014, and 78% of total assets as of december 31, 2014. as a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. accordingly, adverse economic conditions affecting these three states in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. for example, our credit risk could be elevated to the extent that our lending practices in these three states focus on borrowers or groups of borrowers with similar economic characteristics, which are similarly affected by the same adverse economic events. at both december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , loan balances associated with our banking operations in utah, texas, and california comprised 81% of the company's commercial lending portfolio, 75% of the cre lending portfolio, and 69% of the consumer lending portfolio. loans originated by our banking operations in utah, texas, and california are primarily to borrowers in those respective states, with the exception of the national real estate group, which co-originates or purchases primarily owner occupied first cre loans from financial institutions throughout the country. we have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. adverse economic conditions negatively affect the company's assets, including its loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. the most recent financial crisis resulted in significant regulatory changes that continue to affect the company. although economic conditions have improved since the most recent financial crisis, it is possible that economic conditions may weaken or that sluggish economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. economic and fiscal conditions in the united states and other countries may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic and market conditions faced by the company and its customers. any sustained weakness or further weakening in economic conditions would adversely affect the company. the company has exposure to oil and gas-related companies that are currently experiencing a prolonged period of low energy prices. for more information regarding the company's exposure to oil and gas-related companies see oil and gas-related exposure in risk elements on pages 52-55 of md&amp;a in this form 10-k. market and interest rate risks failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the company's revenue. interest rate risk is managed by the asset liability management committee, which is appointed by the company's board of directors. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect the company. factors beyond the company's control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company's risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates resulting from general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. 14 table of contents the company remains in an asset-sensitive interest rate risk position, which means that net interest income would be expected to increase if interest rates increase, and to decline if interest rates decrease. most recently, the frb maintained the target range for federal funds rate at 0.25% to 0.50%, and indicated that it will determine the timing and size of future rate adjustments by assessing realized and expected economic conditions relative to the objectives of maximum employment and 2% inflation. financial market participants have recently contemplated the possibility of negative interest rates. with the exception of brief money market disruptions in which some u.s. treasury bills traded at negative rates, the u.s. has not previously experienced a negative rate environment, although other developed economies have had prolonged periods of negative rates. therefore, there are many unknown factors which could impact the company in a negative rate environment. the ability to effectively charge customers interest on deposits will be determined largely by competition for deposits, but the company's deposit systems may require modification to allow for negative deposit rates. asset allocation strategies would be reconsidered were the frb to charge for excess reserves. our estimates of our interest rate risk position related to noninterest-bearing demand deposits are dependent on assumptions for which there is little historical experience, and the actual behavior of those deposits in a changing interest rate environment may differ materially from our estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations. we have experienced a low interest rate environment for the past several years. our views with respect to, among other things, the degree to which we are asset-sensitive, including our interest rate risk position for noninterest-bearing demand deposits, are dependent on modeled projections that rely on assumptions regarding changes in balances of such deposits in a changing interest rate environment. because there is no modern precedent for the prolonged, extremely low interest rate environment that has prevailed for the last several years, there is little historical experience upon which to base such assumptions. if interest rates continue to increase, our assumptions regarding changes in balances of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and regarding the speed and degree to which other deposits are repriced may prove to be incorrect, and business decisions made in reliance on our modeled projections and underlying assumptions could prove to be unsuccessful. because noninterest-bearing demand deposits are a significant portion of our deposit base, realized results which are different from our modeled projections and the underlying assumptions could materially affect our results of operations. liquidity risk we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates, and particular classes of securities that we and our banking subsidiary issue. the rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates, and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. ratings downgrades to us, our affiliates, or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities. as a regulated entity, we are subject to capital and liquidity requirements that may limit our operations and potential growth. we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company. as such, we and our subsidiary bank are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the frb, the occ and the fdic, including risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements, and basel iii liquidity requirements. capital needs may rise above normal levels when we experience deteriorating earnings and credit quality, and our banking regulators may increase our capital requirements based on general economic conditions and our particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. in addition, we may be required to increase our capital levels even in the absence of actual adverse economic conditions or forecasts as a result of stress testing and capital planning based on hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios. compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain 15 table of contents present business levels. for a summary of the capital rules to which we are subject, see capital standards basel framework in supervision and regulation on page 9 of md&amp;a in this form 10-k. liquidity regulations, including regulations establishing a minimum liquidity coverage ratio ( lcr ) and requiring monthly liquidity stress testing applicable to the company may impact profitability. the company is subject to liquidity regulations, including a requirement that it conduct monthly liquidity stress tests, that require it maintain a modified lcr of at least 100% effective january 1, 2016. the company's calculation of the modified lcr indicates that the company is in compliance with the requirement. such stress testing is subject to ongoing model and assumptions changes which could affect results. in order to meet the requirements of these new regulations, the company expects to continue to hold a higher portion of its assets in high quality liquid assets ( hqla ) and a lower portion of its assets in loans than was generally the case prior to such regulation. hqla generally have lower yields than loans of the type made by the company. the company may not be able to utilize the significant deferred tax asset recorded on its balance sheet. the company's balance sheet includes a significant dta. the largest components of this asset result from additions to our alll for purposes of generally accepted accounting principles in excess of loan losses actually taken for tax purposes. our ability to continue to record this dta is dependent on the company's ability to realize its value through net operating loss carrybacks or future projected earnings. loss of part or all of this asset would adversely impact tangible capital. in addition, inclusion of this asset in determining regulatory capital is subject to certain limitations. currently no dta are disallowed for regulatory purposes either on a consolidated basis or at the company's subsidiary bank. strategic/business risk problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on us. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. information security and vendor management processes are in place to actively identify, manage and monitor actual and potential impacts. the regulation of incentive compensation under the dodd-frank act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. the bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. these regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. if we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. we have made and are continuing to make significant changes to the company that include, among other things, the combination of certain of our subsidiary companies into a single entity, other organizational restructurings, efficiency initiatives, and replacement or upgrades of certain core technological systems to improve our control environment, operating efficiency, and results of operations. the ultimate success and completion of these changes, and their effect on the company, may vary significantly from initial planning, which could materially adversely affect the company. during 2013, our board of directors approved a significant investment by us to replace our loan and deposit systems and to upgrade our accounting systems. the new integrated system for most of our loans and deposits is expected to employ technology that is a significant improvement over our current systems. these initiatives will be completed in phases to allow for appropriate testing and implementation so as to minimize time delays and cost 16 table of contents overruns. in december 2015, the company consolidated its seven subsidiary banks, a subsidiary trust company, and our service company into a single bank. the company also decided to make other organizational changes such as the realignment of management responsibilities and the rationalization of support functions, including accounting and risk, and back office operations. additionally, in june 2015, management announced certain efficiency initiatives to improve operating results and return on equity. these changes continue to be implemented and some are in their early stages. by their very nature, projections of duration, cost, expected savings, expected efficiencies, and related items are subject to change and significant variability. we may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these changes. these may include significant time delays, cost overruns, loss of key people, technological problems, processing failures, and other adverse developments. our ability to attract key employees with appropriate talent to implement these changes may also be challenged. further, our ability to maintain an adequate control environment may be impacted. any or all of these issues could result in disruptions to our systems, processes, controls, procedures, and employees, which may adversely impact our customers and our ability to conduct business. we have plans, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these potential adverse developments. however, there can be no assurance that any such adverse developments will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately remediated. the ultimate effect of any adverse development could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect the company, including its control environment, operating efficiency, and results of operations. operational/technology risks catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and the company. the company has significant operations and a significant customer base in utah, texas, california and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. these regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought. these types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, the company's business and customers, and have posed physical risks to the company's property. in addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on the company's customers and in turn on the company. although we have business continuity and disaster recovery programs in place, a significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect the company's operating results. we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. these efforts also include the management of controls to mitigate operational risks for programs and processes across the company. we could be adversely affected by financial technology advancements and other non-traditional lending and banking sources. the ability to successfully remain competitive is dependent upon our ability to maintain a critical technological capability and identify and develop new, value-added products for existing and future customers. failure to do so could impede our time to market, reduce customer product accessibility and weaken our competitive position. 17 table of contents our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. we, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft of proprietary company or customer data. while we have significant internal resources, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. model risk we increasingly use models in the management of the company, and in particular in the required stress testing and capital plan. there is risk that these models are incorrect or inaccurate in various ways, which can cause us to make non-optimal decisions, and this risk causes the company to hold additional capital as a buffer against that risk. we attempt to carefully develop, document, back test, and validate the models used in the management of the company, including, for example, models used in the management of interest rate and liquidity risk, and those used in projecting stress losses in various segments of our credit and securities portfolios, and projecting net revenue under stress. models are inherently imperfect for a number of reasons, however, and cannot perfectly predict outcomes. management decisions based in part on such models, therefore, can be suboptimal. in addition, in determining the company's capital needs under stress testing, we attempt to specifically quantify the amounts by which model results could be incorrect, and we hold material additional amounts of capital as a buffer against this model risk. capital/financial reporting risks stress testing and capital management under the dodd-frank act may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets. under the ccar, we are required to submit to the frb each year our capital plan for the applicable planning horizon, along with the results of required stress tests. each annual capital plan will, among other things, specify our planned capital actions with respect to dividends, preferred stock redemptions, common stock buybacks or issuances, and similar matters and will be subject to the objection or non-objection by the frb. moreover, the ccar process requires us to analyze the pro forma impact on our financial condition of various hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios selected by us and the frb. we must maintain or raise capital sufficient to meet our risk management and regulatory expectations under such hypothetical scenarios. in connection with the annual ccar process, we also participate in the dodd-frank act stress tests ( dfast ) on a semi-annual basis. under dfast, a standardized strategy for capital actions (dividend payments held constant and other current capital obligations met) is implemented by all participating banks. as required by the dodd-frank act we also submit stress tests to the occ for our subsidiary bank because it has assets in excess of $10 billion. under both ccar and dfast, the federal reserve uses its proprietary models to analyze the company's stressed capital position. the severity of the hypothetical scenarios devised by the frb and occ and employed in these stress tests is undefined by law or regulation, and is thus subject solely to the discretion of the regulators. the stress testing and capital planning processes may, among other things, require us to increase our capital levels, limit our dividends or other capital distributions to shareholders, modify our business strategies, or decrease our exposure to various asset classes. under stress testing and capital management standards implemented by bank regulatory agencies under the dodd-frank act, we may declare dividends, repurchase common stock, redeem preferred stock and debt, access capital markets for certain types of capital, make acquisitions, and enter into similar transactions only if included in a 18 table of contents capital plan to which the frb has not objected. any similar transactions not contemplated in our annual capital plan, other than those with an inconsequential impact on actual or projected capital, may require a new stress test and capital plan, which is subject to frb non-objection. these requirements may significantly limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments. economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the company. the company and its subsidiary bank must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios, as required by its banking regulators, which can change depending upon general economic conditions, hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios, and the particular conditions, risk profiles and growth plans of the company and its subsidiary bank. compliance with capital requirements may limit the company's ability to expand and has required, and may require, the company or its subsidiaries to raise additional capital, or may require additional capital investment from the parent. these uncertainties and risks, including those created by legislative and regulatory uncertainties, may increase the company's cost of capital and other financing costs. we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the company provides to its customers, invests in, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs, a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. the level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. the administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the company to comply before their formal adoption. therefore, identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements pose an ongoing risk. our results of operations depend upon the performance of our subsidiaries. we are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our banking subsidiary and other subsidiaries. the parent receives substantially all of its revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries and primarily from its subsidiary bank. these dividends are a principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. we and certain of our subsidiaries experienced periods of unprofitability or reduced profitability during the most recent recession of 2007-2009. the ability of the company and its subsidiary bank to pay dividends is restricted by regulatory requirements, including profitability and the need to maintain required levels of capital. lack of profitability or reduced profitability exposes us to the risk that regulators could restrict the ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends. it also increases the risk that the company may have to establish a valuation allowance against its net dta or have that asset disallowed for regulatory capital purposes. the ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends or make other payments to us is also limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on its dividends. if it does not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we may be unable to pay dividends or interest on our indebtedness. the occ, the primary regulator of our subsidiary bank, has issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks to pay dividends only out of current earnings. in addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, which could include the payment of dividends, such authority may take actions requiring that such bank refrain from the practice. payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if a subsidiary bank were to become under-capitalized for purposes of the applicable federal regulatory prompt corrective action regulations. the value of our goodwill may decline in the future. as of december 31, 2015, the company had $1 billion of goodwill that was allocated to amegy, cb&amp;t and zions bank. if the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than its carrying value, the company may have to 19 table of contents take a charge related to the impairment of its goodwill. such a charge would occur if the fair value of the company's net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our reporting units, or if the company was to experience increases in the book value of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in the fair value of equity of a reporting unit. a significant decline in the company's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower economic growth or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the company's common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate the company taking charges in the future related to the impairment of its goodwill. future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of the appropriateness of the goodwill carrying value. if the company was to conclude that a future write-down of its goodwill is necessary, it would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. legal/compliance risks the dodd-frank act imposes significant limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs. the dodd-frank act has material implications for the company and the entire financial services industry. the dodd-frank act places significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions, particularly those with more than $50 billion of assets, including the company. in addition, among other things, the dodd-frank act: affects the levels of capital and liquidity with which the company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels; subjects the company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the fdic; impacts the company's ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; impacts a number of the company's business strategies; requires us to incur the cost of developing substantial heightened risk management policies and infrastructure; regulates the pricing of certain of our products and services and restricts the revenue that the company generates from certain businesses; subjects the company to capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital raising; subjects the company to supervision by the cfpb, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; grants authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks; subjects the company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and limits the manner and amount in which compensation is paid to executive officers and employees generally. the company and the entire financial services industry have incurred and will continue to incur substantial personnel, systems, consulting, and other costs in order to comply with new regulations promulgated under the dodd-frank act, particularly with respect to stress testing and risk management. some aspects of the dodd-frank act continue to be subject to rulemaking, many of the rules that have been adopted will take effect over several additional years, and many of the rules that have been adopted may be subject to interpretation and clarification, and accordingly, the impact of such regulatory changes cannot be presently determined. individually and collectively, regulations adopted under the dodd-frank act may materially adversely affect the company's and the financial services industry's business, financial condition (including the company's ability to compete effectively with less regulated financial services providers), and results of operations. 20 table of contents other legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our operations and earnings. in addition to the dodd-frank act described previously, bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or are considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation. our deposits are insured by the fdic up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to fdic insurance assessments. there can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory changes or actions will ultimately be adopted. however, if adopted, some of these proposals could adversely affect the company by, among other things: impacting after-tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting the company's ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of the company's funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that the company could offer; and requiring the company to raise capital at inopportune times. the ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted as it is unclear which, if any, may be adopted. we could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings. we are subject to risks associated with legal claims, fines, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. the company's exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the past or current economic environments, new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes, the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies, and increasingly aggressive enforcement and legal actions against banking organizations. reputational risk the company is presented with various reputational risk issues that could stem from operational, compliance and legal risks. a reputational risk council was established to monitor, manage and develop strategies to effectively manage reputational risk which includes, but is not limited to, addressing communication logistics, legal and regulatory issues. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 84 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 63 and is hereby incorporated by reference.risk factors 14 risk factors the company's growth strategy is driven by key factors while adhering to defined risk parameters. the key elements of zions' strategy reflect its prudent risk-taking philosophy. the company generates revenue by taking prudent and appropriately priced risks. these factors are outlined in the company's risk appetite framework. the company's board of directors has established a risk oversight committee of the board, approved an enterprise risk management framework, and appointed an enterprise risk management committee ( ermc ) consisting of senior management to oversee and implement the framework. the company's most significant risk exposure has traditionally come from the acceptance of credit risk inherent in prudent extension of credit to relationship customers. in addition to credit risk, these committees also monitor the following risk areas: market and interest rate risks, liquidity risk, strategic/business risk, operational/technology risks, model risk, capital/financial reporting risks, legal/compliance risks (including regulatory risk), and reputational risk as outlined in the company's risk taxonomy. additional governance and oversight includes board-approved policies and management committees with direct focus on these specific risk categories. 14 although not comprehensive, the following describes several risk factors which are significant to the company: credit risk credit quality has adversely affected us in the past and may adversely affect us in the future. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations declined, this could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses ( alll ). we have concentrations of risk in our loan portfolio, including loans secured by real estate and oil and gas-related lending, which may have unique risk characteristics that may adversely affect our results. given the current volatility in oil prices and the potential for oil prices to remain low for an extended period of time, zions' credit exposure in oil and gas could be adversely impacted. concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the company. concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the company due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk. we engage in commercial construction and land acquisition and development lending, as well as commercial term lending, primarily in our western states footprint. the company, as a whole, has relatively larger concentrations of such lending than many other peer institutions. in addition, we have a concentration in oil and gas-related lending, primarily in texas. both commercial real estate ( cre ) and oil and gas-related lending are subject to specific risks, including volatility and potential significant and prolonged declines in collateral-values and activity levels. in addition, our real estate lending is concentrated in the western states, and values there may behave differently than in other parts of the united states. we may have other unidentified concentrated or correlated risks in our loan portfolio. our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a specific geographic region of the united states. as a regional bank holding company, the company provides a full range of banking and related services through its local management teams and unique brands in arizona, california, colorado, idaho, nevada, new mexico, oregon, texas, utah, washington, and wyoming. approximately 84% of the company's total net interest income for the year ended december 31, 2016 relate to our banking operations in utah, texas, and california. this is compared to 88% of the company's total net interest income for the year ended december 31, 2015 . as a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. accordingly, adverse economic conditions affecting these three states in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. for example, our credit risk could be elevated to the extent that our lending practices in these three states focus on borrowers or groups of borrowers with similar economic characteristics, which are similarly affected by the same adverse economic events. at december 31, 2016 , loan balances associated with our banking operations in utah, texas, and california comprised 81% of the company's commercial lending portfolio, 74% of the cre lending portfolio, and 69% of the consumer lending portfolio. loans originated by our banking operations in utah, texas, and california are primarily to borrowers in those respective states, with the exception of the national real estate group, which co-originates or purchases primarily owner-occupied first-lien cre loans from financial institutions throughout the country. we have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. adverse economic conditions negatively affect the company's assets, including its loan and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. the most recent financial crisis resulted in significant regulatory changes that continue to affect the company. although economic conditions have improved since the most recent financial crisis, it is possible that economic conditions may weaken or that sluggish economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. economic and fiscal conditions in the united states and other countries may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic and market conditions faced by the company and its customers. any sustained weakness or further weakening in economic conditions would adversely affect the 15 company. the company has exposure to oil and gas-related companies that are currently experiencing a prolonged period of low energy prices. for more information regarding the company's exposure to oil and gas-related companies see oil and gas-related exposure on page 57 of md&amp;a in this form 10-k. market and interest rate risks failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the company's revenue. interest rate risk is managed by the asset liability management committee, which is appointed by the company's board of directors. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect the company. factors beyond the company's control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company's risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates resulting from general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. the company remains in an asset-sensitive interest rate risk position, which means that net interest income would be expected to increase if interest rates increase, and to decline if interest rates decrease. most recently, the frb raised the target range for federal funds rate from 0.50% to 0.75%, and indicated that it will determine the timing and size of future rate adjustments by assessing realized and expected economic conditions relative to the objectives of maximum employment and 2% inflation. financial market participants have recently contemplated the possibility of negative interest rates. with the exception of brief money market disruptions in which some u.s. treasury bills traded at negative rates, the u.s. has not previously experienced a negative rate environment, although other developed economies have had prolonged periods of negative rates. therefore, there are many unknown factors which could impact the company in a negative rate environment. the ability to effectively charge customers interest on deposits will be determined largely by competition for deposits, but the company's deposit systems may require modification to allow for negative deposit rates. asset allocation strategies would be reconsidered were the frb to charge for excess reserves. our estimates of our interest rate risk position related to noninterest-bearing demand deposits are dependent on assumptions for which there is little historical experience, and the actual behavior of those deposits in a changing interest rate environment may differ materially from our estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations. we have experienced a low interest rate environment for the past several years. our views with respect to, among other things, the degree to which we are asset-sensitive, including our interest rate risk position for noninterest-bearing demand deposits, are dependent on modeled projections that rely on assumptions regarding changes in balances of such deposits in a changing interest rate environment. because there is no modern precedent for the prolonged, extremely low interest rate environment that has prevailed for the last several years, there is little historical experience upon which to base such assumptions. if interest rates continue to increase, our assumptions regarding changes in balances of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and regarding the speed and degree to which other deposits are repriced may prove to be incorrect, and business decisions made in reliance on our modeled projections and underlying assumptions could prove to be unsuccessful. because noninterest-bearing demand deposits are a significant portion of our deposit base, realized results which are different from our modeled projections and the underlying assumptions could materially affect our results of operations. liquidity risk as a regulated entity, we are subject to capital and liquidity requirements that may limit our operations and potential growth. we are a bank holding company and, as such, we and our subsidiary bank are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the frb, the occ and the fdic, including risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements, and basel iii liquidity requirements. capital needs may rise above normal levels when 16 we experience deteriorating earnings and credit quality, and our banking regulators may increase our capital requirements based on general economic conditions and our particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. in addition, we may be required to increase our capital levels even in the absence of actual adverse economic conditions or forecasts as a result of stress testing and capital planning based on hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios. compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain present business levels. for a summary of the capital rules to which we are subject, see capital standards basel framework on page 9 of this annual report on form 10-k. liquidity regulations, including regulations establishing a minimum liquidity coverage ratio and requiring monthly liquidity stress testing applicable to the company may impact profitability. the company is subject to liquidity regulations, including a requirement that it conduct monthly liquidity stress tests that require it to maintain a modified lcr of at least 100%. the company's calculation of the modified lcr indicates that the company is in compliance with the requirement. such stress testing is subject to ongoing model and assumptions changes which could affect results. in order to meet the requirements of these new regulations, the company expects to continue to hold a higher portion of its assets in high-quality liquid assets ( hqla ) and a lower portion of its assets in loans than was generally the case prior to such regulation. hqla generally have lower yields than loans of the type made by the company. we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us and particular classes of securities that we and our banking subsidiary issue. the rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. ratings downgrades to us or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities. strategic/business risks problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on us. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. information security and vendor management processes are in place to actively identify, manage and monitor actual and potential impacts. the regulation of incentive compensation under the dodd-frank act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. the bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. these regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. if we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. we have made and are continuing to make significant changes to the company that include, among other things, the combination of certain of our subsidiary companies into a single entity, other organizational restructurings, efficiency initiatives, and replacement or upgrades of certain core technological systems to improve our control environment, operating efficiency, and results of operations. the ultimate success and completion of these 17 changes, and their effect on the company, may vary significantly from initial planning, which could materially adversely affect the company. during 2013, our board of directors approved a significant investment by us to replace our loan and deposit systems and to upgrade our accounting systems. the new integrated system for most of our loans and deposits is expected to employ technology that is a significant improvement over our current systems. these initiatives will be completed in phases to allow for appropriate testing and implementation so as to minimize time delays and cost overruns. in december 2015, the company consolidated its seven subsidiary banks, a subsidiary trust company, and our service company into a single bank. the company also decided to make other organizational changes such as the realignment of management responsibilities and the rationalization of support functions, including accounting and risk, and back-office operations. additionally, in june 2015, management announced certain efficiency initiatives to improve operating results and return on equity. these changes continue to be implemented, and some are in their early stages. by their very nature, projections of duration, cost, expected savings, expected efficiencies, and related items are subject to change and significant variability. we may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these changes. these may include significant time delays, cost overruns, loss of key people, technological problems, processing failures, and other adverse developments. our ability to attract key employees with appropriate talent to implement these changes may also be challenged. further, our ability to maintain an adequate control environment may be impacted. any or all of these issues could result in disruptions to our systems, processes, controls, procedures, and employees, which may adversely impact our customers and our ability to conduct business. we have plans, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these potential adverse developments. however, there can be no assurance that any such adverse developments will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately remediated. the ultimate effect of any adverse development could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect the company, including its control environment, operating efficiency, and results of operations. operational/technology risks catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and the company. the company has significant operations and a significant customer base in utah, texas, california and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. these regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought. these types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, the company's business and customers, and have posed physical risks to the company's property. in addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on the company's customers and in turn on the company. although we have business continuity and disaster recovery programs in place, a significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect the company's operating results. we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. these efforts also include the management of controls to mitigate operational risks for programs and processes across the company. 18 we could be adversely affected by financial technology advancements and other non-traditional lending and banking sources. the ability to successfully remain competitive is dependent upon our ability to maintain a critical technological capability and to identify and develop new, value-added products for existing and future customers. failure to do so could impede our time to market, reduce customer product accessibility, and weaken our competitive position. we are subject to a variety of system failure and cyber security risks that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. we, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. information security risks for large financial institutions such as zions have increased significantly in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, such as internet and mobile banking to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of cyber criminals. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft, disclosure or misuse of proprietary company or customer data. while we have significant internal resources, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our layers of defense or to investigate or remediate any information security vulnerabilities. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. model risk we increasingly use models in the management of the company, and in particular in the required stress testing and capital plan. there is risk that these models are incorrect or inaccurate in various ways, which can cause us to make non-optimal decisions, and this risk causes the company to hold additional capital as a buffer against that risk. we attempt to carefully develop, document, back test, and validate the models used in the management of the company, including, for example, models used in the management of interest rate and liquidity risk, and those used in projecting stress losses in various segments of our credit and securities portfolios, and projecting net revenue under stress. models are inherently imperfect for a number of reasons, however, and cannot perfectly predict outcomes. management decisions based in part on such models, therefore, can be suboptimal. in addition, in determining the company's capital needs under stress testing, we attempt to specifically quantify the amounts by which model results could be incorrect, and we hold material additional amounts of capital as a buffer against this model risk. capital/financial reporting risks stress testing and capital management under the dodd-frank act may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets. under the ccar, we are required to submit to the frb each year our capital plan for the applicable planning horizon, along with the results of required stress tests. each annual capital plan will, among other things, specify our planned capital actions with respect to dividends, preferred stock redemptions, common stock buybacks or issuances, and similar matters and will be subject to the objection or non-objection by the frb. moreover, the ccar process requires us to analyze the pro forma impact on our financial condition of various hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios selected by us and the frb. we must maintain or raise capital sufficient to meet our risk management and regulatory expectations under such hypothetical scenarios. in connection with the annual ccar process, we also participate in the dfast on a semiannual basis. under dfast, a standardized strategy for capital actions (dividend payments held constant and other current capital obligations met) is implemented by all 19 participating banks. as required by the dodd-frank act, we also submit stress tests to the occ for our subsidiary bank because it has assets in excess of $10 billion. under both ccar and dfast, the frb uses its proprietary models to analyze the company's stressed capital position. the severity of the hypothetical scenarios devised by the frb and occ and employed in these stress tests is undefined by law or regulation, and is thus subject solely to the discretion of the regulators. the stress-testing and capital-planning processes may, among other things, require us to increase our capital levels, limit our dividends or other capital distributions to shareholders, modify our business strategies, or decrease our exposure to various asset classes. under stress testing and capital management standards implemented by bank regulatory agencies under the dodd-frank act, we may declare dividends, repurchase common stock, redeem preferred stock and debt, access capital markets for certain types of capital, make acquisitions, and enter into similar transactions only if included in a capital plan to which the frb has not objected. any similar transactions not contemplated in our annual capital plan, other than those with an inconsequential impact on actual or projected capital, may require a new stress test and capital plan, which is subject to frb non-objection. these requirements may significantly limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments. economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the company. the company and its subsidiary bank must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios, as required by its banking regulators, which can change depending upon general economic conditions, hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios, and the particular conditions, risk profiles and growth plans of the company and its subsidiary bank. compliance with capital requirements may limit the company's ability to expand and has required, and may require, the company or its subsidiaries to raise additional capital, or may require additional capital investment from the parent. these uncertainties and risks, including those created by legislative and regulatory uncertainties, may increase the company's cost of capital and other financing costs. we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the company provides to its customers, invests in, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs, a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. the level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. the administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the company to comply before their formal adoption. therefore, identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements pose an ongoing risk. our results of operations depend upon the performance of our subsidiaries. we are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our banking subsidiary and other subsidiaries. the parent receives substantially all of its revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries and primarily from its subsidiary bank. these dividends are a principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. we and certain of our subsidiaries experienced periods of unprofitability or reduced profitability during the most recent recession of 2007-2009. the ability of the company and its subsidiary bank to pay dividends is restricted by regulatory requirements, including profitability and the need to maintain required levels of capital. lack of profitability or reduced profitability exposes us to the risk that regulators could restrict the ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends. it also increases the risk that the company may have to establish a valuation allowance against its net dta or have that asset disallowed for regulatory capital purposes. the ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends or make other payments to us is also limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on its dividends. if it does not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we may be unable to pay dividends or interest on our indebtedness. the occ, the primary 20 regulator of our subsidiary bank, has issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks to pay dividends only out of current earnings. in addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, which could include the payment of dividends, such authority may take actions requiring that such bank refrain from the practice. payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if a subsidiary bank were to become under-capitalized for purposes of the applicable federal regulatory prompt corrective action regulations. the value of our goodwill may decline in the future. as of december 31, 2016 , the company had $1 billion of goodwill that was allocated to amegy, cb&amp;t and zions bank. if the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than its carrying value, the company may have to take a charge related to the impairment of its goodwill. such a charge would occur if the company were to experience increases in the book value of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in the fair value of equity of a reporting unit. a significant decline in the company's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower economic growth or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the company's common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate the company taking charges in the future related to the impairment of its goodwill. future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of the appropriateness of the goodwill carrying value. if the company was to conclude that a future write-down of its goodwill is necessary, it would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the company may not be able to utilize the significant dta recorded on its balance sheet. the company's balance sheet includes a significant dta. the largest components of this asset result from additions to our alll for purposes of generally accepted accounting principles in excess of loan losses actually taken for tax purposes. our ability to continue to record this dta is dependent on the company's ability to realize its value through net operating loss carrybacks or future projected earnings. loss of part or all of this asset would adversely impact tangible capital. in addition, inclusion of this asset in determining regulatory capital is subject to certain limitations. currently, no dtas are disallowed for regulatory purposes either on a consolidated basis or at the company's subsidiary bank. legal/compliance risks the dodd-frank act imposes significant limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs. the dodd-frank act has material implications for the company and the entire financial services industry. the dodd-frank act places significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions, particularly those with more than $50 billion of assets, including the company. in addition, among other things, the dodd-frank act: affected the levels of capital and liquidity with which the company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels; subjected the company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the fdic; impacted the company's ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; impacted a number of the company's business strategies; required us to incur the cost of developing substantial heightened risk management policies and infrastructure; regulated the pricing of certain of our products and services and restricted the revenue that the company generates from certain businesses; subjected the company to capital-planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital raising; subjected the company to supervision by the cfpb, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; granted authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks; 21 subjected the company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and limited the manner and amount in which compensation is paid to executive officers and employees generally. the company and the entire financial services industry have incurred and will continue to incur substantial personnel, systems, consulting, and other costs in order to comply with new regulations promulgated under the dodd-frank act, particularly with respect to stress testing and risk management. some aspects of the dodd-frank act continue to be subject to rulemaking, many of the rules that have been adopted will take effect over several additional years, and many of the rules that have been adopted may be subject to interpretation and clarification, and accordingly, the impact of such regulatory changes cannot be presently determined. individually and collectively, regulations adopted under the dodd-frank act may materially adversely affect the company's and the financial services industry's business, financial condition (including the company's ability to compete effectively with less regulated financial services providers), and results of operations. other legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our operations and earnings. in addition to the dodd-frank act described previously, bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or are considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation. our deposits are insured by the fdic up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to fdic insurance assessments. there can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory changes or actions will ultimately be adopted. however, if adopted, some of these proposals could adversely affect the company by, among other things: impacting after-tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting the company's ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of the company's funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that the company could offer; and requiring the company to raise capital at inopportune times. recent political developments, including the change in the executive administration of the united states, could result in substantial changes in tax, international trade, immigration, and other policies. the extent and timing of any such changes are uncertain, as are the potential direct and indirect impacts, whether beneficial or adverse. regulations and laws may be modified or repealed and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us and our subsidiaries. the ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted as it is unclear which, if any, may be adopted. we could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings. we are subject to risks associated with legal claims, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. the company's exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the past or current economic environments, new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes, the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies, and increasingly aggressive enforcement and legal actions against banking organizations. any such matters may result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties (including civil money penalties under applicable banking laws), injunctions, restrictions on our business activities or other relief. our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business. in general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations, including those relating to anti-money laundering matters, have been increasing dramatically. in addition, any enforcement matters could impact our supervisory and cra ratings, which may restrict or limit our activities. 22 reputational risk the company is presented with various reputational risk issues that could stem from operational, compliance and legal risks. a reputational risk council was established to monitor, manage and develop strategies to effectively manage reputational risk which includes, but is not limited to, addressing communication logistics, legal and regulatory issues. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 68 and is hereby incorporated by reference.risk factors 16 risk factors the company's growth strategy is driven by key factors while adhering to defined risk parameters. the key elements of zions' strategy reflect its prudent risk-taking philosophy. the company generates revenue by taking prudent and appropriately priced risks. these factors are outlined in the company's risk appetite framework. the company's board of directors has established a risk oversight committee of the board, approved an enterprise risk management framework, and appointed an enterprise risk management committee ( ermc ) to oversee and implement the framework. the ermc is comprised of senior management of the company and is chaired by the chief risk officer. the company's most significant risk exposure has traditionally come from the acceptance of credit risk inherent in prudent extension of credit to relationship customers. in addition to credit risk, these committees also monitor the following level one risk areas: market and interest rate risk, liquidity risk, strategic/business risk, operational/technology risk, model risk, capital/financial reporting risk, legal/compliance risk (including regulatory risk), and reputational risk as outlined in the company's risk taxonomy. in 2017, the company also designated cyber risk a level one risk in its risk taxonomy, which places it at the highest level of oversight with its other top risks. additional governance and oversight includes board-approved policies and management committees with direct focus on these specific risk categories. incorporated into each of these level one risks mentioned previously is third party vendor risk, which the company views as critical in the management and oversight of vendor management. although not comprehensive, the following describes several risk factors that are significant to the company: credit risk credit quality has adversely affected us in the past and may adversely affect us in the future. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. a decline in the strength of the u.s. economy in general or the local economies in which we conduct operations could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses ( alll ). we have concentrations of risk in our loan portfolio, including loans secured by real estate, leveraged and enterprise value lending, and oil and gas-related lending, which may have unique risk characteristics that may adversely affect our results. while oil and gas prices have stabilized over the last year and our lending exposure to this segment has been reduced, the oil and gas industry is still subject to volatility. concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the company. concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the company due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk. we engage in commercial construction and land acquisition and development lending, as well as commercial term lending, primarily in our western states footprint. the company, as a whole, has relatively larger concentrations of such lending than many other peer institutions. in addition, we have a concentration in oil and gas-related lending, primarily in texas. both commercial real estate ( cre ) and oil and gas-related lending are subject to specific 16 table of contents risks, including volatility and potential significant and prolonged declines in collateral-values and activity levels. in addition, our real estate lending is concentrated in the western states, and values there may behave differently than in other parts of the united states. we may have other unidentified concentrated or correlated risks in our loan portfolio. our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a specific geographic region of the united states. as a regional bank holding company, the company provides a full range of banking and related services through its local management teams and unique brands in arizona, california, colorado, idaho, nevada, new mexico, oregon, texas, utah, washington, and wyoming. approximately 76% of the company's total net interest income relates to our banking operations in utah, texas, and california for the years ended december 31, 2017 , and december 31, 2016 , respectively. as a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. accordingly, adverse economic conditions affecting these three states in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. for example, our credit risk could be elevated to the extent that our lending practices in these three states focus on borrowers or groups of borrowers with similar economic characteristics, which are similarly affected by the same adverse economic events. at december 31, 2017 , loan balances associated with our banking operations in utah, texas, and california comprised 80% of the company's commercial lending portfolio, 74% of the cre lending portfolio, and 71% of the consumer lending portfolio. loans originated by our banking operations in utah, texas, and california are primarily to borrowers in those respective states, with the exception of the national real estate group, which co-originates or purchases primarily owner-occupied first-lien cre loans from financial institutions throughout the country. we have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. adverse economic conditions negatively affect the company's assets, including its loan and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. the most recent financial crisis resulted in significant regulatory changes that continue to affect the company. although economic conditions have improved since the most recent financial crisis, it is possible that economic conditions may weaken. economic and fiscal conditions in the united states and other countries may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic and market conditions faced by the company and its customers. any sustained weakness or further weakening in economic conditions would adversely affect the company. market and interest rate risks failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the company's revenue. interest rate risk is managed by the asset liability management committee, which is established by the company's board of directors. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect the company. factors beyond the company's control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company's risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates resulting from general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. the company remains in an asset-sensitive interest rate risk position, which means that net interest income would be expected to increase if interest rates increase, and to decline if interest rates decrease. most recently, the frb decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 1.25% to 1.5%, and indicated that it will determine the timing and size of future rate adjustments by assessing realized and expected economic conditions relative to the objectives of maximum employment and 2% inflation. financial market participants have recently contemplated the possibility of negative interest rates. with the exception of brief money market disruptions in which some u.s. treasury bills traded at negative rates, the u.s. has 17 table of contents not previously experienced a negative rate environment, although other developed economies have had prolonged periods of negative rates. therefore, there are many unknown factors which could impact the company in a negative rate environment. the ability to effectively charge customers interest on deposits will be determined largely by competition for deposits, but the company's deposit systems may require modification to allow for negative deposit rates. asset allocation strategies would be reconsidered were the frb to charge for excess reserves. our estimates of our interest rate risk position related to noninterest-bearing demand deposits are dependent on assumptions for which there is little historical experience, and the actual behavior of those deposits in a changing interest rate environment may differ materially from our estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations. we have experienced a low interest rate environment for the past several years. our views with respect to, among other things, the degree to which we are asset-sensitive, including our interest rate risk position for noninterest-bearing demand deposits, are dependent on modeled projections that rely on assumptions regarding changes in balances of such deposits in a changing interest rate environment. because there is no modern precedent for the prolonged, extremely low interest rate environment that has prevailed for the last several years, there is little historical experience upon which to base such assumptions. if interest rates continue to increase, our assumptions regarding changes in balances of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and regarding the speed and degree to which other deposits are repriced may prove to be incorrect, and business decisions made in reliance on our modeled projections and underlying assumptions could prove to be unsuccessful. because noninterest-bearing demand deposits are a significant portion of our deposit base, realized results which are different from our modeled projections and the underlying assumptions could materially affect our results of operations. liquidity risk as a regulated entity, we are subject to capital and liquidity requirements that may limit our operations and potential growth. we are a bank holding company and, as such, we and our subsidiary bank are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the frb, the occ and the fdic, including risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements, and basel iii liquidity requirements. capital needs may rise above normal levels when we experience deteriorating earnings and credit quality, and our banking regulators may increase our capital requirements based on general economic conditions and our particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. in addition, we may be required to increase our capital levels even in the absence of actual adverse economic conditions or forecasts as a result of stress testing and capital planning based on hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios. compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain present business levels. for a summary of the capital rules to which we are subject, see capital standards basel framework on page 10 of this annual report on form 10-k. liquidity regulations, including regulations establishing a minimum liquidity coverage ratio and requiring monthly liquidity stress testing applicable to the company may impact profitability. the company is subject to liquidity regulations, including a requirement that it conduct monthly liquidity stress tests that require it to maintain a modified lcr of at least 100%. the company's calculation of the modified lcr indicates that the company is in compliance with the requirement. such stress testing is subject to ongoing model and assumptions changes which could affect results. in order to meet the requirements of these new regulations, the company expects to continue to hold a higher portion of its assets in hqla and a lower portion of its assets in loans than was generally the case prior to such regulation. hqla generally have lower yields than loans of the type made by the company. we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us and particular classes of securities that we and our banking subsidiary 18 table of contents issue. the rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. ratings downgrades to us or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities. strategic/business risks problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on us. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. information security and vendor management processes are in place to actively identify, manage and monitor actual and potential impacts. the regulation of incentive compensation under the dodd-frank act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. the bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. these regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. if we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. we have made, and are continuing to make, significant changes to the company that include, among other things, organizational restructurings, efficiency initiatives, and replacement or upgrades of certain core technological systems to improve our control environment, and operating efficiency. the ultimate success and completion of these changes, and their effect on the company, may vary significantly from initial planning, which could materially adversely affect the company. over the last several years, the company has completed numerous improvement projects, including combining the legal charters of our seven affiliate banks into one, consolidating 15 loan operations sites into two, upgrading our accounting systems, installing a credit origination work flow system, streamlining our small business and retail lending, mortgage, wealth management and foreign exchange businesses, and investing in data quality and information security. ongoing investment continues in a multi-year project to replace our core loan and deposit systems, a collection of customer-facing digital capabilities and a variety of other projects to simplify how we do business. these changes continue to be implemented; some of the projects are fully completed, and some projects are in their early stages. by their very nature, projections of duration, cost, expected savings, expected efficiencies, and related items are subject to change and significant variability. we may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these changes. these may include significant time delays, cost overruns, loss of key people, technological problems, processing failures, and other adverse developments. any or all of these issues could result in disruptions to our systems, processes, control environment, procedures, and employees, which may adversely impact our customers and our ability to conduct business. we have plans, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these potential adverse developments. however, there can be no assurance that any such adverse developments will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately remediated. the ultimate effect of any adverse development could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect the company, including its control environment, operating efficiency, and results of operations. 19 table of contents operational/technology risks catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and the company. the company has significant operations and a significant customer base in utah, texas, california and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. these regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought. these types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, the company's business and customers, and have posed physical risks to the company's property. in addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on the company's customers and in turn on the company. although we have business continuity and disaster recovery programs in place, a significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect the company's operating results. we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. these efforts also include the management of controls to mitigate operational risks for programs and processes across the company. we could be adversely affected by financial technology advancements and other non-traditional lending and banking sources. the ability to successfully remain competitive is dependent upon our ability to maintain a critical technological capability and to identify and develop new, value-added products for existing and future customers. failure to do so could impede our time to market, reduce customer product accessibility, and weaken our competitive position. cyber risk we are subject to a variety of system failure and cyber security risks that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. we, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. information security risks for large financial institutions such as zions have increased significantly in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, such as internet and mobile banking to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of cyber criminals. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft, disclosure or misuse of proprietary company or customer data. while we have significant internal resources, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our layers of defense or to investigate or remediate any information security vulnerabilities. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. model risk we increasingly use models in the management of the company, and in particular in the required stress testing and capital plan. there is risk that these models are incorrect or inaccurate in various ways, which can cause us 20 table of contents to make non-optimal decisions, and this risk causes the company to hold additional capital as a buffer against that risk. we attempt to carefully develop, document, back test, and validate the models used in the management of the company, including, for example, models used in the management of interest rate and liquidity risk, and those used in projecting stress losses in various segments of our credit and securities portfolios, and projecting net revenue under stress. models are inherently imperfect for a number of reasons, however, and cannot perfectly predict outcomes. management decisions based in part on such models, therefore, can be suboptimal. in addition, in determining the company's capital needs under stress testing, we attempt to specifically quantify the amounts by which model results could be incorrect, and we hold material additional amounts of capital as a buffer against this model risk. capital/financial reporting risks stress testing and capital management under the dodd-frank act may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets. under hcr/ccar, we are required to submit to the frb each year our capital plan for the applicable planning horizon, along with the results of required stress tests. each annual capital plan will, among other things, specify our planned capital actions with respect to dividends, preferred stock redemptions, common stock repurchases or issuances, and similar matters and will be subject to the objection or non-objection by the frb. moreover, the hcr/ccar process requires us to analyze the pro forma impact on our financial condition of various hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios selected by us and the frb. we must maintain or raise capital sufficient to meet our risk management and regulatory expectations under such hypothetical scenarios. in connection with the annual hcr/ccar process, we also participate in the dfast on a semiannual basis. under dfast, a standardized strategy for capital actions (dividend payments held constant and other current capital obligations met) is implemented by all participating banks. as required by the dodd-frank act, we also submit stress tests to the occ for our subsidiary bank because it has assets in excess of $10 billion. under both hcr/ccar and dfast, the frb uses its proprietary models to analyze the company's stressed capital position. the severity of the hypothetical scenarios devised by the frb and occ and employed in these stress tests is undefined by law or regulation, and is thus subject solely to the discretion of the regulators. the stress testing and capital planning processes may, among other things, require us to increase our capital levels, limit our dividends or other capital distributions to shareholders, modify our business strategies, or decrease our exposure to various asset classes. under stress testing and capital management standards implemented by bank regulatory agencies under the dodd-frank act, we may declare dividends, repurchase common stock, redeem preferred stock and debt, access capital markets for certain types of capital, make acquisitions, and enter into similar transactions only if included in a capital plan to which the frb has not objected. any similar transactions not contemplated in our annual capital plan, other than those with an inconsequential impact on actual or projected capital, may require a new stress test and capital plan, which is subject to frb non-objection. these requirements may significantly limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments. economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the company. the company and its subsidiary bank must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios, as required by its banking regulators, which can change depending upon general economic conditions, hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios, and the particular conditions, risk profiles and growth plans of the company and its subsidiary bank. compliance with capital requirements may limit the company's ability to expand and has required, and may require, the company or its subsidiaries to raise additional capital, or may require additional capital investment from the parent. these uncertainties and risks, including those created by legislative and regulatory uncertainties, may increase the company's cost of capital and other financing costs. we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the company provides to its customers, invests in, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs, a number of complex 21 table of contents financial products and services. estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. the level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. the administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the company to comply before their formal adoption. therefore, identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements pose an ongoing risk. our results of operations depend upon the performance of our subsidiaries. we are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our banking subsidiary and other subsidiaries. the parent receives substantially all of its revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries and primarily from its subsidiary bank. these dividends are a principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. we and certain of our subsidiaries experienced periods of unprofitability or reduced profitability during the most recent recession of 2007-2009. the ability of the company and its subsidiary bank to pay dividends is restricted by regulatory requirements, including profitability and the need to maintain required levels of capital. lack of profitability or reduced profitability exposes us to the risk that regulators could restrict the ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends. it also increases the risk that the company may have to establish a valuation allowance against its net dta or have that asset disallowed for regulatory capital purposes. the ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends or make other payments to us is also limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on its dividends. if it does not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we may be unable to pay dividends or interest on our indebtedness. the occ, the primary regulator of our subsidiary bank, has issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks to pay dividends only out of current earnings. in addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, which could include the payment of dividends, such authority may take actions requiring that such bank refrain from the practice. payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if a subsidiary bank were to become under-capitalized for purposes of the applicable federal regulatory prompt corrective action regulations. the value of our goodwill may decline in the future. as of december 31, 2017 , the company had $1 billion of goodwill that was allocated to amegy, cb&amp;t and zions bank. if the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than its carrying value, the company may have to take a charge related to the impairment of its goodwill. such a charge would occur if the company were to experience increases in the book value of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in the fair value of equity of a reporting unit. a significant decline in the company's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower economic growth or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the company's common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate the company taking charges in the future related to the impairment of its goodwill. future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of the appropriateness of the goodwill carrying value. if the company was to conclude that a future write-down of its goodwill is necessary, it would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the company may not be able to utilize the significant dta recorded on its balance sheet. the company's balance sheet includes a significant dta. we had net dtas of $93 million at december 31, 2017 , compared with $250 million at december 31, 2016 . the largest components of this asset result from additions to our alll for purposes of gaap in excess of loan losses actually taken for tax purposes. our ability to continue to record this dta is dependent on the company's ability to realize its value through net operating loss carrybacks or future projected earnings. loss of part or all of this asset would adversely impact tangible capital. in addition, inclusion of this asset in determining regulatory capital is subject to certain limitations. currently, no dtas are disallowed for regulatory purposes either on a consolidated basis or at the company's subsidiary bank. 22 table of contents legal/compliance risks the dodd-frank act imposes significant limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs. the dodd-frank act has material implications for the company and the entire financial services industry. the dodd-frank act places significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions, particularly those with more than $50 billion of assets, including the company. in addition, among other things, the dodd-frank act: affected the levels of capital and liquidity with which the company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels; subjected the company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the fdic; impacted the company's ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; impacted a number of the company's business strategies; required us to incur the cost of developing substantial heightened risk management policies and infrastructure; regulated the pricing of certain of our products and services and restricted the revenue that the company generates from certain businesses; subjected the company to capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital raising; subjected the company to supervision by the cfpb, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; granted authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks; subjected the company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and limited the manner and amount in which compensation is paid to executive officers and employees generally. the company and the entire financial services industry have incurred and will continue to incur substantial personnel, systems, consulting, and other costs in order to comply with new regulations promulgated under the dodd-frank act, particularly with respect to stress testing and risk management. some aspects of the dodd-frank act continue to be subject to rulemaking, many of the rules that have been adopted will take effect over several additional years, and many of the rules that have been adopted may be subject to interpretation and clarification, and accordingly, the impact of such regulatory changes cannot be presently determined. individually and collectively, regulations adopted under the dodd-frank act may materially adversely affect the company's and the financial services industry's business, financial condition (including the company's ability to compete effectively with less regulated financial services providers), and results of operations. other legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our operations and earnings. in addition to the dodd-frank act described previously, bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or are considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation. our deposits are insured by the fdic up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to fdic insurance assessments. there can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory changes or actions will ultimately be adopted. however, if adopted, some of these proposals could adversely affect the company by, among other things: impacting after-tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting the company's ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of the company's funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that the company could offer; and requiring the company to raise capital at inopportune times. recent political developments, including the change in the executive administration of the united states, could result in substantial changes in tax, international trade, immigration, and other policies. the extent and timing of any such changes are uncertain, as are the potential direct and indirect impacts, whether beneficial or adverse. 23 table of contents regulations and laws may be modified or repealed and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us and our subsidiaries. the ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted as it is unclear which, if any, may be adopted. we could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings. we are subject to risks associated with legal claims, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. the company's exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the past or current economic environments, new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes, the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies, and increasingly aggressive enforcement and legal actions against banking organizations. any such matters may result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties (including civil money penalties under applicable banking laws), injunctions, restrictions on our business activities or other relief. our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business. in general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations, including those relating to anti-money laundering matters, have been increasing dramatically. in addition, any enforcement matters could impact our supervisory and cra ratings, which may restrict or limit our activities. reputational risk the company is presented with various reputational risk issues that could stem from operational, compliance and legal risks. a reputational risk council was established to monitor, manage and develop strategies to effectively manage reputational risk which includes, but is not limited to, addressing communication logistics, legal and regulatory issues. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 84 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 68 and is hereby incorporated by reference.risk factors 14 risk factors the bank's growth strategy is driven by key factors while adhering to defined risk parameters. the key elements of the bank's strategy reflect its prudent risk-taking philosophy. the bank generates revenue by taking prudent and appropriately priced risks. these factors are outlined in the bank's risk appetite framework. the bank's board of directors has established a risk oversight committee of the board, approved an enterprise risk management framework, and appointed an enterprise risk management committee ( ermc ) to oversee and implement the framework. the ermc is comprised of senior management of the bank and is chaired by the chief risk officer. the bank's most significant risk exposure has traditionally come from the acceptance of credit risk inherent in prudent extension of credit to relationship customers. in addition to credit risk, these committees also monitor the following level one risk areas: market and interest rate risk, liquidity risk, strategic, business and corporate governance risk, operational/technology risk, cyber risk, model risk, capital/financial reporting risk, legal/compliance risk (including regulatory risk), and reputational risk as outlined in the bank's risk taxonomy. additional governance and oversight includes board-approved policies and management committees with direct focus on these specific risk categories. incorporated into each of these level one risks mentioned previously is third party vendor risk, which the bank views as critical in the management and oversight of vendors. although not comprehensive, the following describes several risk factors that are significant to the bank: credit risk credit quality has adversely affected us in the past and may adversely affect us in the future. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. a decline in the strength of the u.s. economy in general or the local economies in which we conduct operations could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses ( alll ). we have concentrations of risk in our loan portfolio, including loans secured by real estate, leveraged and enterprise value lending, and oil and gas-related lending, which may have unique risk characteristics that may adversely affect our results. concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the bank. concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the bank due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk. we engage in commercial construction and land acquisition and development lending, as well as commercial term lending, primarily in our western states footprint. the bank, as a whole, has relatively larger concentrations of such lending than many other peer institutions. in addition, we have a concentration in oil and gas-related lending, primarily in texas. both commercial real estate ( cre ) and oil and gas-related lending are subject to specific risks, including volatility and potential significant and prolonged declines in collateral-values and activity levels. in addition, our real estate lending is concentrated in the western states, and values there may behave differently than in other parts of the united states. we may have other unidentified concentrated or correlated risks in our loan portfolio. 14 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a specific geographic region of the united states. the bank provides a full range of banking and related services through its local management teams and unique brands in arizona, california, colorado, idaho, nevada, new mexico, oregon, texas, utah, washington, and wyoming. approximately 79% and 78% of the bank's total net interest income relates to our banking operations in utah, texas, and california for the years ended december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 , respectively. as a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. accordingly, adverse economic conditions affecting these three states in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. for example, our credit risk could be elevated to the extent that our lending practices in these three states focus on borrowers or groups of borrowers with similar economic characteristics, which are similarly affected by the same adverse economic events. at december 31, 2018 , loan balances associated with our banking operations in utah, texas, and california comprised 79% of the bank's commercial lending portfolio, 73% of the cre lending portfolio, and 69% of the consumer lending portfolio. we have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. adverse economic conditions negatively affect the bank's assets, including its loan and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. the most recent financial crisis resulted in significant regulatory changes that continue to affect the bank. although economic conditions have improved since the most recent financial crisis, it is possible that economic conditions may weaken. economic and fiscal conditions in the united states and other countries may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic and market conditions faced by the bank and its customers. any sustained weakness or further weakening in economic conditions would adversely affect the bank. market and interest rate risks failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the bank's revenue. interest rate risk is managed by the asset liability management committee, which is established by the bank's board of directors. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect the bank. factors beyond the bank's control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the bank's risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates resulting from general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. over the course of the last year, we have maintained a moderate level of asset-sensitivity as the market rates seemed more likely to increase than to decrease. as risks shifted at the end of the year to be more balanced between higher or lower rates in the future, the asset/liability committee ( alco ) has undertaken strategies to reduce the level of asset-sensitivity, such as entering into rate floor agreements and increasing the use of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges to synthetically convert floating-rate assets to fixed-rate. we anticipate moving towards a less asset-sensitive interest rate risk position over the course of 2019. interest rates on the bank's financial instruments might be subject to change based on developments related to libor, which could adversely impact the bank's revenue, expenses, and value of those financial instruments. in july 2017, the financial conduct authority, the authority regulating the london interbank offered rate ( libor ), along with various other regulatory bodies, announced that libor would likely be discontinued at the end of 2021. libor makes up the most liquid and common interest rate index in the world and is commonly referenced in financial instruments. we have exposure to libor in various aspects through our financial contracts. instruments that may be impacted include loans, securities, and derivatives, among other financial contracts indexed to libor and that mature after december 31, 2021. while there is no consensus on what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to libor, the alternative reference rates committee, a steering committee comprised of u.s. financial market participants, selected by the 15 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries federal reserve bank of new york, started in may 2018 to publish the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ) as an alternative to libor. sofr is a broad measure of the cost of overnight borrowings collateralized by treasury securities that was selected by the alternative reference rate committee due to the depth and robustness of the u.s. treasury repurchase market. at this time, it is impossible to predict whether sofr will become an accepted alternative to libor. the market transition away from libor to an alternative reference rate, such as sofr, is complex and could have a range of adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in particular, any such transition could: adversely affect the interest rates paid or received on, the revenue and expenses associate with, and the value of our floating-rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments tied to libor rates, or other securities or financial arrangements given libor's role in determining market interest rates globally; prompt inquiries or other actions from regulators in respect of our preparation and readiness for the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate; result in disputes, litigation or other actions with counterparties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of certain fallback language in libor-based securities; and require the transition to or development of appropriate systems and analytics to effectively transition our risk management processes from libor-based products to those based on the applicable alternative pricing benchmark, such as sofr. the manner and impact of this transition, as well as the effect of these developments on our funding costs, loan and investment and trading securities portfolios, asset-liability management, and business, is uncertain. liquidity risk as a regulated entity, we are subject to capital and liquidity requirements that may limit our operations and potential growth. the bank is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the occ and the fdic, including risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements, and basel iii liquidity requirements. capital needs may rise above normal levels when we experience deteriorating earnings and credit quality, and our banking regulators may increase our capital requirements based on general economic conditions and our particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain present business levels. although the bank is not currently subject to the final lcr rule or the net stable funding ratio ( nsfr ), it is possible that the bank may become subject to a liquid coverage ratio requirement or other heightened liquidity requirements in the future if the occ or another banking regulator apply such a requirement to the bank as a supervisory matter. in addition, the bank may become subject to any rule implementing the nsfr that is promulgated in the future. as a result, the bank could be required to hold a higher portion of its assets in securities and other liquid assets and a lower portion of its assets in loans. securities and other liquid assets generally have lower yields than loans of the type made by the bank. for a summary of the capital rules to which we are subject, see capital standards basel framework on page 9 of this annual report on form 10-k. we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us and particular classes of securities that we issue. the rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. ratings downgrades to us or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities. 16 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries strategic, business and corporate governance risks problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on us. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. information security and vendor management processes are in place to actively identify, manage and monitor actual and potential impacts. the regulation of incentive compensation under the dodd-frank act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. the bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. these regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. if we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. we have made, and are continuing to make, significant changes to the bank that include, among other things, organizational restructurings, efficiency initiatives, and replacement or upgrades of certain core technological systems to improve our control environment, and operating efficiency. the ultimate success and completion of these changes, and their effect on the bank, may vary significantly from initial planning, which could materially adversely affect the bank. over the last several years, the bank has completed numerous improvement projects, including the merger of its bank holding company into the bank, combining the legal charters of our seven affiliate banks into one, consolidating 15 loan operations sites into two, upgrading our accounting systems, installing a credit origination work flow system, streamlining our small business and retail lending, mortgage, wealth management and foreign exchange businesses, and investing in data quality and information security. ongoing investment continues in a multi-year project to replace our core loan and deposit systems, a collection of customer-facing digital capabilities and a variety of other projects to simplify how we do business. these changes continue to be implemented; some of the projects are fully completed, and some projects are in their early stages. by their very nature, projections of duration, cost, expected savings, expected efficiencies, and related items are subject to change and significant variability. we may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these changes. these may include significant time delays, cost overruns, loss of key people, technological problems, processing failures, and other adverse developments. any or all of these issues could result in disruptions to our systems, processes, control environment, procedures, and employees, which may adversely impact our customers and our ability to conduct business. we have plans, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these potential adverse developments. however, there can be no assurance that any such adverse developments will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately remediated. the ultimate effect of any adverse development could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect the bank, including its control environment, operating efficiency, and results of operations. 17 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries operational/technology risks catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and the bank. the bank has significant operations and a significant customer base in utah, texas, california and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. these regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought. these types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, the bank's business and customers, and have posed physical risks to the bank's property. in addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on the bank's customers and in turn on the bank. although we have business continuity and disaster recovery programs in place, a significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect the bank's operating results. we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the bank. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. these efforts also include the management of controls to mitigate operational risks for programs and processes across the bank. we could be adversely affected by financial technology advancements and other non-traditional lending and banking sources. the ability to successfully remain competitive is dependent upon our ability to maintain a critical technological capability and to identify and develop new, value-added products for existing and future customers. failure to do so could impede our time to market, reduce customer product accessibility, and weaken our competitive position. cyber risk we are subject to a variety of system failure and cyber security risks that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. we, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. information security risks for large financial institutions such as the bank have increased significantly in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, such as internet and mobile banking to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, activists and other external third parties. third parties with whom we or our customers do business also present operational and information security risks to us, including security breaches or failures of their own systems. the possibility of employee error, failure to follow security procedures, or malfeasance also presents these risks. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal computers, smartphones, tablets, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control environment. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft, disclosure or misuse of proprietary bank or customer data. while we have significant internal resources, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our layers of defense or to investigate or remediate any information security vulnerabilities. system enhancements and updates may also create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. due to the complexity and interconnectedness of information technology systems, the process of enhancing our layers of defense can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues. in 18 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries addition, addressing certain information security vulnerabilities, such as hardware-based vulnerabilities, may affect the performance of our information technology systems. the ability of our hardware and software providers to deliver patches and updates to mitigate vulnerabilities in a timely manner can introduce additional risks, particularly when a vulnerability is being actively exploited by threat actors. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. model risk we use models in the management of the bank. there is risk that these models are incorrect or inaccurate in various ways, which can cause us to make non-optimal decisions, and this risk causes the bank to hold additional capital as a buffer against that risk. we attempt to carefully develop, document, back test, and validate the models used in the management of the bank, including, for example, models used in the management of interest rate and liquidity risk, and those used in projecting stress losses in various segments of our credit and securities portfolios, and projecting net revenue under stress. models are inherently imperfect for a number of reasons, however, and cannot perfectly predict outcomes. management decisions based in part on such models, therefore, can be suboptimal. in addition, in determining the bank's capital needs under stress testing, we attempt to specifically quantify the amounts by which model results could be incorrect, and we hold material additional amounts of capital as a buffer against this model risk. capital/financial reporting risks internal stress testing and capital management, as well as provisions of the national bank act and occ regulations, may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets. although we are no longer subject to the ccar regime, we are required to submit stress tests to the occ because the bank has assets in excess of $10 billion, and we expect to continue to utilize stress testing as an important mechanism to inform our decisions on the appropriate level of capital, based upon actual and hypothetically-stressed economic conditions. the stress testing and other applicable regulatory requirements may, among other things, require us to increase our capital levels, limit our dividends or other capital distributions to shareholders, modify our business strategies, or decrease our exposure to various asset classes. under the national bank act and occ regulations, certain capital transaction may be subject to the approval of the occ. these requirements may limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments. economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the bank. the bank must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios, as required by its banking regulators, which can change depending upon general economic conditions, and the particular conditions, risk profiles and growth plans of the bank. compliance with capital requirements may limit the bank's ability to expand and has required, and may require, the bank or its subsidiaries to raise additional capital. these uncertainties and risks, including those created by legislative and regulatory uncertainties, may increase the bank's cost of capital and other financing costs. we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the bank is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the bank provides to its customers, invests in, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs, a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. the level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. the administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the bank to comply before their formal adoption. therefore, identification, interpretation and 19 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements pose an ongoing risk. the value of our goodwill may decline in the future. as of december 31, 2018 , the bank had $1 billion of goodwill that was allocated to amegy bank ( amegy ), california bank &amp; trust ( cb&amp;t ) and zions bank. if the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than its carrying value, the bank may have to take a charge related to the impairment of its goodwill. such a charge would occur if the bank were to experience increases in the book value of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in the fair value of equity of a reporting unit. a significant decline in the bank's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower economic growth or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the bank's common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate the bank taking charges in the future related to the impairment of its goodwill. future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of the appropriateness of the goodwill carrying value. if the bank was to conclude in the future that a write-down of its goodwill is necessary, it would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on the bank's results of operations. the bank may not be able to utilize the significant dta recorded on its balance sheet. the bank's balance sheet includes a significant dta. we had net dtas of $130 million at december 31, 2018 , compared with $93 million at december 31, 2017 . the largest component of this asset results from additions to our alll for purposes of gaap in excess of loan losses actually taken for tax purposes. our ability to continue to record this dta is dependent on the bank's ability to realize its value through net operating loss carrybacks or future projected earnings. loss of part or all of this asset would adversely impact tangible capital. in addition, inclusion of this asset in determining regulatory capital is subject to certain limitations. currently, no dtas are disallowed for regulatory purposes at the bank. legal risks the dodd-frank act imposes significant limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs. the dodd-frank act implementing regulations place significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions. among other things, the dodd-frank act: impacts the bank's ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; impacts a number of the bank's business strategies; requires us to incur the cost of developing substantial heightened risk management policies and infrastructure; regulates the pricing of certain of our products and services and restricts the revenue that the bank generates from certain businesses; subjects the bank to supervision by the cfpb, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; grants authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks; and subjects the bank to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; the bank and the entire financial services industry have incurred and will continue to incur substantial personnel, systems, consulting, and other costs in order to comply with regulations promulgated under the dodd-frank act. some aspects of the dodd-frank act continue to be subject to rulemaking, many of the rules that have been adopted will take effect over several additional years, and many of the rules that have been adopted may be subject to interpretation and clarification, and accordingly, the impact of such regulatory changes cannot be presently determined. individually and collectively, regulations adopted under the dodd-frank act may materially adversely affect the bank's and the financial services industry's business, financial condition (including the bank's ability to compete effectively with less regulated financial services providers), and results of operations. 20 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries other legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our operations and earnings. in addition to the dodd-frank act described previously, bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or are considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation. our deposits are insured by the fdic up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to fdic insurance assessments. there can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory changes or actions will ultimately be adopted. however, if adopted, some of these proposals could adversely affect the bank by, among other things: impacting after-tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting the bank's ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of the bank's funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that the bank could offer; and requiring the bank to raise capital at inopportune times. recent political developments could result in substantial changes in tax, international trade, immigration, and other policies. the extent and timing of any such changes are uncertain, as are the potential direct and indirect impacts, whether beneficial or adverse. regulations and laws may be modified or repealed, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us and our subsidiaries. the ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted as it is unclear which, if any, may be adopted. we could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings. we are subject to risks associated with legal claims, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. the bank's exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the past or current economic environments, new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes, the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies, and increasingly aggressive enforcement and legal actions against banking organizations. any such matters may result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties (including civil money penalties under applicable banking laws), injunctions, restrictions on our business activities or other relief. our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business. in general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations, including those relating to anti-money laundering matters, have been increasing dramatically. in addition, any enforcement matters could impact our supervisory and cra ratings, which may restrict or limit our activities. the corporate and securities laws applicable to the bank are not as well-developed as those applicable to a state-chartered corporation, and this may impact the ability of the bank to effect corporate transactions in an efficient and optimal manner. prior to the restructuring, the corporate affairs of the bank's holding company were governed by utah state law, and securities law matters were governed by the federal securities laws, including the securities act and the exchange act, as administered by the sec. each of these legal regimes is well-developed and used widely by public companies. post-restructuring, the bank's corporate affairs are governed by the national bank act and related regulations administered by the occ. with respect to securities matters, the bank is not subject to the securities act, but rather to occ regulations governing securities offerings. the bank's common stock and certain other securities are registered or deemed registered under the exchange act, which vests the occ with the power to administer and enforce certain sections of the exchange act applicable to banks such as the bank (though the bank currently makes and intends to continue to make filings required by the exchange act with the sec as a voluntary filer ). these occ statutory and regulatory regimes have been used by publicly-traded banking organizations relatively rarely and are not as well-developed as the corporate and securities law regimes applicable to corporations. while certain specific risks associated with operating under these regimes are discussed below, unless and until these regimes are further developed and established over time, the uncertainty of how these regimes might apply to any 21 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries given corporate or securities matters may prevent us from effecting transactions in an efficient and optimal manner or perhaps at all. differences between the national bank act and state law requirements in respect of mergers could result in the bank not being able to execute acquisitions as efficiently and advantageously as bank holding companies or other financial institutions. unlike state corporate law, the national bank act requires shareholder approval of all mergers between a national bank and another national or state bank and does not allow for exceptions in the case of various minor mergers, such as a parent company's merger with a subsidiary or an acquirer's merger with an unaffiliated entity in which the shares issued by the acquirer do not exceed a designated percentage. the national bank act and related regulations do not allow for the direct merger into a national bank of a non-affiliated non-bank. these differences could adversely affect the bank's, and other banks registered under the national bank act, ability to efficiently consummate acquisition transactions. in addition, such differences could make the bank less competitive as a potential acquirer in certain circumstances given that the bank's acquisition proposal may be conditioned on bank shareholder approval while the bank's competitors' proposals will not have such a condition. differences between the national bank act and state law could result in the bank's capacity to pay dividends and repurchase shares at any given time being different from the capacity that existed for zions bancorporation prior to the restructuring. the regulations and limitations applicable to the bank relating to the payment of dividends and repurchases or redemptions of outstanding common and preferred shares differ from the limitations and considerations that applied to the bank's holding company prior to the recent restructuring. while the bank does not believe this change in legal restrictions resulting from the restructuring will constrain the bank from executing any capital plans that are currently contemplated or otherwise reasonably foreseeable in the near term, there can be no assurance that the change in legal restrictions will not have an adverse effect on the bank's ability to pay dividends and repurchase or redeem stock in the future. shares of common stock of a national bank are assessable and this may cause investors to view the bank's common stock less favorably than that of zions bancorporation prior to the restructuring. the national bank act provides that under certain circumstances the common stock of a national bank is assessable, i.e., holders may be subject to a levy for more funds if so determined by the occ. in contrast, the common stock of state corporations is not subject to assessment. however, the occ has confirmed that under the applicable provisions of the national bank act, assessability is limited to the par value of a national bank's stock. the bank's common stock has a par value of $0.001. moreover, according to the occ, it has not exercised its authority to levy assessments since 1933 and views the assessability authority as a mechanism for addressing capital deficiency that has long been overtaken by developments in statute and regulation, including robust capital standards, prompt corrective action requirements and supervisory and enforcement authorities requiring an institution to maintain capital at a particular level. nonetheless, potential investors may be unfamiliar with the concept of assessment and, as a result, view the bank less favorably as an investment. the ability of investors to access financial and other reports filed by the bank readily could be adversely affected if such reports were not able to be made available publicly through the sec or a system operated by the occ comparable to that of the sec. the bank has been permitted and currently makes its exchange act filings as a voluntary filer with the sec. there can be no assurance, however, that the occ or sec will continue to allow the bank to make filings as a voluntary filer or that the occ will develop a comparable system for making exchange act filings publicly available. if the bank's exchange act filings ceased to be as readily available as those of bank holding companies, investors could view the bank less favorably. 22 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries the bank's ability to issue securities in an optimal manner may be adversely affected by the fact that the occ's securities offering regulations and organizational structure are less well-developed than those of the sec, which applied to the bank's holding company prior to the restructuring. the sec maintains a well-developed regulatory regime and well-staffed organization relating to securities offerings under or exempt from the securities act. for example, the sec has developed integrated disclosure rules, which allow exchange act filings to be incorporated by reference into prospectuses distributed as required by the securities act. in addition, under the sec's rules seasoned issuers who are timely in their filings are permitted to use automatic shelf registration, allowing them to offer securities under a registration statement that is automatically effective upon filing. the occ maintains its own securities offering regime applicable to national banks and their securities offerings, which the bank will need to comply with in order to access the public capital markets. similar to the sec's offering rules, the occ's regime requires that registration statements be reviewed and declared or become effective. however, given that there are currently no other nationally-charted banks whose common stock has been issued under the occ's securities offering regime, it is unknown at this point whether and how the occ staff would review registration statements, and unclear whether the occ would apply the same mechanics for automatic shelf registration filings used by sec-filers, or how, more generally, the occ will function as a securities regulator. given the extent to and manner in which the bank has accessed capital markets historically, or to which it currently contemplates accessing such markets, the bank does not believe there will be a material adverse impact on the bank's ability to access capital markets effectively, although there can be no assurance that this will be the case and it is possible that operating under the occ's securities offering regime could impede the bank's ability to sell securities at the most advantageous times or to achieve optimum pricing in offerings. the bank is subject to restrictions on permissible activities that would limit the types of business it may conduct and that may make acquisitions of other financial companies more challenging. under applicable laws and regulations, bank holding companies and banks are generally limited to business activities and investments that are related to banking or are financial in nature. the range of permissible financial activities is set forth in the gramm-leach-bliley act and is more limited for banks than for bank holding company organizations. the differences relate mainly to insurance underwriting (but not insurance agency activities) and merchant banking (but not broker-dealer and investment advisory activities). merchant banking authority is an important power for financial institutions that desire to engage in a full-scale investment banking business and can also be important for institutions that wish to engage in private equity and proprietary investment business lines. while historically the bank's holding company did not seek to engage in activities available only to bank holding companies under the gramm-leach-bliley act, the bank is not able to engage in these activities. loss of the bank holding company status resulting from the restructuring will make future acquisitions by the bank of financial institutions that have such operations more challenging. the bank's common stock is not an insured deposit. shares of the bank's common stock are not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in value are not insured by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. investment in shares of the bank's common stock is inherently risky and is subject to the same market forces and investment risks that affect the price of common stock in any other company, including the possible loss of some or all principal invested. reputational risk the bank is presented with various reputational risk issues that could stem from operational, regulatory/compliance and legal risks. a reputational risk council was established to monitor, manage and develop strategies to effectively manage reputational risk which includes, but is not limited to, addressing communication logistics, legal and regulatory issues. 23 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 62 and is hereby incorporated by reference. 73 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiariesrisk factors 14 risk factors the bank's growth strategy is driven by key factors while adhering to defined risk parameters. the key elements of the bank's strategy reflect its prudent risk-taking philosophy. the bank generates revenue by taking prudent and appropriately priced risks. these factors are outlined in the bank's risk appetite framework. the bank's board of directors has established a risk oversight committee of the board, approved an enterprise risk management framework, and appointed an enterprise risk management committee ( ermc ) to oversee and implement the framework. the ermc is comprised of senior management of the bank and is chaired by the chief risk officer. the bank's most significant risk exposure has traditionally come from the acceptance of credit risk inherent in prudent extension of credit to relationship customers. in addition to credit risk, these committees also monitor the following level one risk areas: market and interest rate risk; liquidity risk; strategic, business and corporate governance risk; operational/technology risk; cyber risk; capital/financial reporting risk; legal/compliance risk (including regulatory risk); and reputational risk as outlined in the bank's risk taxonomy. additional governance and oversight includes board-approved policies and management committees with direct focus on these specific risk categories. although not comprehensive, the following describes several risk factors that are significant to the bank: credit risk credit quality has adversely affected us in the past and may adversely affect us in the future. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. a decline in the strength of the u.s. economy in general or the local economies in which we conduct operations could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs, and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses ( alll ). we have concentrations of risk in our loan portfolio, including loans secured by real estate, leveraged and enterprise value lending, and oil and gas-related lending, which may have unique risk characteristics that may adversely affect our results. concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the bank. concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the bank due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk. we engage in commercial construction and land acquisition and development lending, as well as commercial term lending, primarily in our western states footprint. the bank, as a whole, has relatively larger concentrations of such lending than many other peer institutions. in addition, we have a concentration in oil and gas-related lending, primarily in texas. both commercial real estate ( cre ) and oil and gas-related lending are subject to specific risks, including volatility and potential significant and prolonged declines in collateral-values and activity levels. in addition, our real estate lending is concentrated in the western states, and values there may behave differently than in other parts of the united states. we may have other unidentified concentrated or correlated risks in our loan portfolio. our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a specific geographic region of the united states. the bank provides a full range of banking and related services through its local management teams and unique brands in arizona, california, colorado, idaho, nevada, new mexico, oregon, texas, utah, washington, and wyoming. approximately 76% and 75% of the bank's total net interest income relates to our banking operations in utah, texas, and california for the years ended december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018, respectively. as a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. accordingly, adverse economic conditions affecting these three states in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. for example, our credit risk could be elevated to the extent that our lending practices in these three states focus on borrowers or groups of borrowers with similar economic characteristics, which are similarly affected by the same adverse economic events. at december 31, 2019, loan 14 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries balances associated with our banking operations in utah, texas, and california comprised 79% of the bank's commercial lending portfolio, 72% of the cre lending portfolio, and 72% of the consumer lending portfolio. we could be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. adverse economic conditions negatively affect the bank's assets, including its loan and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. the most recent financial crisis resulted in significant regulatory changes that continue to affect the bank. although economic conditions have improved since the most recent financial crisis, it is possible that economic conditions may weaken. economic and fiscal conditions in the united states and other countries may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic and market conditions faced by the bank and its customers. any sustained weakness or further weakening in economic conditions would adversely affect the bank. market and interest rate risk failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the bank's revenue. a prolonged period of low interest rates can have a materially adverse impact on the bank's net interest income and result in declining net interest margins. interest rate risk is managed by the asset liability management committee, which is established by the bank's board of directors. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect the bank. factors beyond the bank's control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the bank's risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates resulting from general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. as interest rates decline our cost of funds may not decline commensurately. some components of the bank's balance sheet are very sensitive to rising and falling rates. over the course of the last year, we actively reduced this asset-sensitivity through various strategies, such as entering into rate floor agreements and increasing the use of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges to synthetically convert floating-rate assets to fixed-rate. we anticipate maintaining a moderately asset-sensitive position in 2020, but the asset/liability committee ( alco ) continues to monitor market developments and may adjust strategies accordingly. interest rates on the bank's financial instruments might be subject to change based on developments related to libor, which could adversely impact the bank's revenue, expenses, and value of those financial instruments. in july 2017, the financial conduct authority, the authority regulating the london interbank offered rate ( libor ), along with various other regulatory bodies, announced that libor would likely be discontinued at the end of 2021. libor makes up the most liquid and common interest rate index in the world and is commonly referenced in financial instruments. we have exposure to libor in various aspects through our financial contracts. instruments that may be impacted include loans, securities, and derivatives, among other financial contracts indexed to libor and that mature after december 31, 2021. while there is no consensus on what rate or rates may become acceptable alternatives to libor, the alternative reference rates committee, a steering committee comprised of u.s. financial market participants, selected by the federal reserve bank of new york, started in may 2018 to publish the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ) as an alternative to libor. sofr is a broad measure of the cost of overnight borrowings collateralized by treasury securities that was selected by the alternative reference rate committee due to the depth and robustness of the u.s. treasury repurchase market. at this time, it is impossible to predict whether sofr will become an accepted alternative to libor. the market transition away from libor to an alternative reference rate, such as sofr, is complex and could have a range of adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in particular, any such transition could: 15 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries adversely affect the interest rates paid or received on, the revenue and expenses associate with, and the value of our floating-rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments tied to libor rates, or other securities or financial arrangements given libor's role in determining market interest rates globally; prompt inquiries or other actions from regulators in respect of our preparation and readiness for the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate; result in disputes, litigation or other actions with counterparties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of certain fallback language in libor-based securities; and require the transition to or development of appropriate systems and analytics to effectively transition our risk management processes from libor-based products to those based on the applicable alternative pricing benchmark, such as sofr. the manner and impact of this transition, as well as the effect of these developments on our funding costs, loan and investment and trading securities portfolios, asset-liability management, and business, is uncertain. liquidity risk changes in sources of liquidity and capital and liquidity requirements may limit our operations and potential growth. our primary source of liquidity is our supply of deposits from our customers. the continued availability of this supply depends on customers maintaining those deposits with us. recently, competition for deposits has increased and interest rates paid on deposits have generally risen. while we make significant efforts to consider and plan for changes in our deposit funding, market-related forces and a wide variety of other events could impact the liquidity value we derive from our deposits. liquidity requirements and sources are also subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the occ and the fdic, including risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements, as well as basel iii liquidity requirements. capital needs may rise above normal levels when we experience deteriorating earnings and credit quality, and our banking regulators may increase our capital requirements based on general economic conditions and our particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. for a summary of the capital rules to which we are subject, see capital standards basel framework on page 9 of this annual report on form 10-k. we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us and particular classes of securities that we issue. the rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. ratings downgrades to us or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our liquidity position, financial condition or the market prices of our securities. strategic, business and corporate governance risks problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on us. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. information security and vendor management processes are in place to actively identify, manage and monitor actual and potential impacts. 16 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries the regulation of incentive compensation under the dodd-frank act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. the bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations that limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. these regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. if we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. we have made, and are continuing to make, significant changes to the bank that include, among other things, organizational restructurings, efficiency initiatives, and replacement or upgrades of certain core technological systems to improve our control environment, and operating efficiency. the ultimate success and completion of these changes, and their effect on the bank, may vary significantly from initial planning, which could materially adversely affect the bank. over the last several years, the bank has completed numerous improvement projects, including the merger of its bank holding company into the bank; combining the legal charters of our seven affiliate banks into one; consolidating 15 loan operations sites into two; replacing our core loan systems; upgrading our accounting systems; installing a credit origination work flow system; streamlining our small business and retail lending, mortgage, wealth management and foreign exchange businesses; and investing in data quality and information security. ongoing investment continues in a multi-year project to replace our core deposit systems, a collection of customer-facing digital capabilities and a variety of other projects to simplify how we do business. the bank has taken actions designed to improve efficiencies and reduce and manage operating expenses, in part to address the challenges to net interest income presented by the current low and declining interest rate environment. these initiatives and changes continue to be implemented; some of the projects are fully completed, and some projects are in their early stages. by their very nature, projections of duration, cost, expected savings, expected efficiencies, and related items are subject to change and significant variability. there can be no certainty that the bank will achieve the expected benefits or other intended results associated with these projects. we may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these changes. these may include significant time delays, cost overruns, loss of key people, technological problems, processing failures, vendor reliance issues and other adverse developments. any or all of these issues could result in disruptions to our systems, processes, control environment, procedures, and employees, which may adversely impact our customers and our ability to conduct business. we have plans, policies, and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these potential adverse developments. however, there can be no assurance that any such adverse developments will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately remediated. the ultimate effect of any adverse development could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect the bank, including its control environment, operating efficiency, and results of operations. operational/technology risk catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, prolonged drought, and pandemics may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and the bank. the bank has significant operations and a significant customer base in utah, texas, california, and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. these regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought. these types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, the bank's business and customers, and have posed physical risks to the bank's property. in addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on the bank's customers and in turn on the bank. although we have business continuity and disaster recovery programs in place, a significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect the bank's operating results. 17 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. we have established internal controls over financial reporting and other operations within the bank. because of its inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the bank. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. these efforts also include the management of controls to mitigate operational risks for programs and processes across the bank. we could be adversely affected by financial technology advancements and other nontraditional lending and banking sources. financial technology companies, referred to as fintechs, and technology platform companies, continue to emerge and compete with traditional financial institutions across a wide variety of products and services. consumers have demonstrated a growing willingness to obtain banking services from fintechs. as a result, our ability to remain competitive is increasingly dependent upon our ability to maintain critical technological capabilities, and to identify and develop new, value-added products for existing and future customers. failure to do so could impede our time to market, reduce customer satisfaction and product accessibility and adaptation, and weaken our competitive position. we use models in the management of the bank. there is risk that these models are incorrect or inaccurate in various ways, which can cause us to make nonoptimal decisions. we attempt to carefully develop, document, back test and validate the models used in the management of the bank. for example, we use models in the management of interest rate and liquidity risk, models used in projecting stress losses in various segments of our credit and securities portfolios, and models projecting net revenue under stress. models are inherently imperfect for a number of reasons and cannot perfectly predict outcomes. management decisions based in part on such models, therefore, can be suboptimal. in addition, when determining the bank's capital needs under stress testing, we attempt to specifically quantify the amounts by which model results could be incorrect. cyber risk we are subject to a variety of system failure and cyber security risks that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. the board and the risk committee of the board have invested significant time on overseeing management's efforts to continue to strengthen our infrastructure, staffing and enhance our controls while improving the client and customer experience. cyber defense and improving our resiliency against cybersecurity threats remains a key focus at all levels of management within the bank, and of our board. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. we, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. information security risks for large financial institutions have increased significantly in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies (e.g., internet and mobile banking to conduct financial transactions) and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, activists and other external third parties. third parties with whom we or our customers do business also present operational and information security risks to us, including security breaches or failures of their own systems. the possibility of employee error, failure to follow security procedures, or malfeasance also presents these risks. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal computers, smartphones, tablets, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control environment. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management; general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems; misappropriation of funds; and theft, disclosure or misuse of proprietary bank or customer data. while we have significant internal resources, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, the bank has 18 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries experienced security breaches due to cyberattacks in the past and there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur in the future, or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. it is impossible to determine the potential effects of these events with any certainty but any such breach could result in material adverse consequences for the bank and its customers. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we will be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our layers of defense or to investigate or remediate any information security vulnerabilities. system enhancements and updates may also create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. due to the complexity and interconnectedness of information technology systems, the process of enhancing our layers of defense can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues. in addition, addressing certain information security vulnerabilities, such as hardware-based vulnerabilities, may affect the performance of our information technology systems. the ability of our hardware and software providers to deliver patches and updates to mitigate vulnerabilities in a timely manner can introduce additional risks, particularly when a vulnerability is being actively exploited by threat actors. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. vendor risk we outsource various operations to third party vendors which could adversely impact our business and operational performance. we rely on various vendors to perform operational activities to conduct our business. we have established operational controls and monitoring through our third party vendor management programs to oversee and manage these vendors to help ensure they adhere to the same business practices that we as a bank have to either adhere or comply with. we have developed and implemented service level agreements ("sla") to assist us in that effort and have implemented regular reporting to monitor and manage our third party vendors. capital/financial reporting risk internal stress testing and capital management, as well as provisions of the national bank act and occ regulations, may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets. although we are no longer subject to the ccar regime, we are required to submit stress tests to the occ because the bank has assets in excess of $10 billion, and we continue to utilize stress testing as an important mechanism to inform our decisions on the appropriate level of capital, based upon actual and hypothetically-stressed economic conditions. the stress testing and other applicable regulatory requirements may, among other things, require us to increase our capital levels, limit our dividends or other capital distributions to shareholders, modify our business strategies, or decrease our exposure to various asset classes. under the national bank act and occ regulations, certain capital transaction may be subject to the approval of the occ. these requirements may limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments. economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the bank. the bank must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios, as required by its banking regulators, which can change depending upon general economic conditions, as well as the particular conditions, risk profiles and growth plans of the bank. compliance with capital requirements may limit the bank's ability to expand and has required, and may require, the bank or its subsidiaries to raise additional capital. these uncertainties and risks, including those created by legislative and regulatory uncertainties, may increase the bank's cost of capital and other financing costs. we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the bank is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the bank uses a number of complex financial products and services for its own capital, funding, investment and risk management needs, in 19 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries addition to providing them to its customers. estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. the level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. the administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the bank to comply before their formal adoption. therefore, identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements pose an ongoing risk. the value of our goodwill may decline in the future. as of december 31, 2019, the bank had $1 billion of goodwill that was allocated to amegy bank ( amegy ), california bank &amp; trust ( cb&amp;t ) and zions bank. if the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than its carrying value, the bank may have to take a charge related to the impairment of its goodwill. such a charge would occur if the bank were to experience increases in the book value of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in the fair value of equity of a reporting unit. a significant decline in the bank's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower economic growth or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the bank's common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate the bank taking charges in the future related to the impairment of its goodwill. if the bank was to conclude in the future that a write-down of its goodwill is necessary, it would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on the bank's results of operations. the bank may not be able to utilize the dta recorded on its balance sheet. the bank's balance sheet includes a dta. we had net dtas of $37 million at december 31, 2019, compared with $130 million at december 31, 2018. the largest component of this asset results from additions to our alll for purposes of gaap in excess of loan losses actually taken for tax purposes. our ability to continue to record this dta is dependent on the bank's ability to realize its value through net operating loss carrybacks or future projected earnings. loss of part or all of this asset would adversely impact tangible capital. in addition, inclusion of this asset in determining regulatory capital is subject to certain limitations. currently, no dtas are disallowed for regulatory purposes at the bank. legal/compliance risk laws and regulations applicable to the bank and the financial services industry impose significant limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs. the bank and the entire financial services industry have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial personnel, systems, consulting, and other costs in order to comply with banking regulations, including those promulgated under the dodd-frank act. see supervision and regulation on page 6 of this annual report on form 10-k for further information about the regulations applicable to the bank and the financial services industry generally. bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or are considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation. our deposits are insured by the fdic up to legal limits. accordingly, we are subject to fdic insurance assessments. there can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory changes or actions will ultimately be adopted. however, if adopted, some of these proposals could adversely affect the bank by, among other things: impacting after-tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting the bank's ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of the bank's funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that the bank could offer; and requiring the bank to raise capital at inopportune times. political developments may also result in substantial changes in tax, international trade, immigration, and other policies. the extent and timing of any such changes are uncertain, as are the potential direct and indirect impacts, whether beneficial or adverse. regulations and laws may be modified or repealed, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us and our subsidiaries. 20 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries the ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted as it is unclear which, if any, may be adopted. we could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings. we are subject to risks associated with legal claims, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. the bank's exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the past or current economic environments, new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes, the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies, and enforcement and legal actions against banking organizations. any such matters may result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties (e.g., civil money penalties under applicable banking laws), injunctions, restrictions on our business activities, or other relief. our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business. in general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations, including those relating to anti-money laundering matters, have been increasing dramatically. in addition, any enforcement matters could impact our supervisory and cra ratings, which may restrict or limit our activities. the corporate and securities laws applicable to the bank are not as well-developed as those applicable to a state-chartered corporation, which may impact the ability of the bank to effect corporate transactions in an efficient and optimal manner. prior to the restructuring, the corporate affairs of the bank's holding company were governed by utah state law, and securities law matters were governed by the federal securities laws, including the securities act and the exchange act, as administered by the sec. each of these legal regimes is well-developed and used widely by public companies. post-restructuring, the bank's corporate affairs are governed by the national bank act and related regulations administered by the occ. with respect to securities matters, the bank is not subject to the securities act, but rather to occ regulations governing securities offerings. the bank's common stock and certain other securities are registered or deemed registered under the exchange act, which vests the occ with the power to administer and enforce certain sections of the exchange act applicable to banks such as the bank (though the bank currently makes and intends to continue to make filings required by the exchange act with the sec as a voluntary filer ). these occ statutory and regulatory regimes have been used by publicly-traded banking organizations relatively rarely and are not as well-developed as the corporate and securities law regimes applicable to corporations. while certain specific risks associated with operating under these regimes are discussed below, unless and until these regimes are further developed and established over time, the uncertainty of how these regimes might apply to any given corporate or securities matters may prevent us from effecting transactions in an efficient and optimal manner or perhaps at all. differences between the national bank act and state law requirements in respect of mergers could result in the bank not being able to execute acquisitions as efficiently and advantageously as bank holding companies or other financial institutions. unlike state corporate law, the national bank act requires shareholder approval of all mergers between a national bank and another national or state bank and does not allow for exceptions in the case of various minor mergers, such as a parent company's merger with a subsidiary or an acquirer's merger with an unaffiliated entity in which the shares issued by the acquirer do not exceed a designated percentage. the national bank act and related regulations may also complicate the structuring of certain nonbank acquisitions. these differences could adversely affect the ability of the bank and other banks registered under the national bank act to efficiently consummate acquisition transactions. in addition, such differences could make the bank less competitive as a potential acquirer in certain circumstances given that the bank's acquisition proposal may be conditioned on bank shareholder approval while the bank's competitors' proposals will not have such a condition. 21 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries differences between the national bank act and state law could result in the bank's capacity to pay dividends and repurchase shares at any given time being different from the capacity that existed for zions bancorporation prior to the restructuring. the regulations and limitations applicable to the bank relating to the payment of dividends and repurchases or redemptions of outstanding common and preferred shares differ from the limitations and considerations that applied to the bank's holding company prior to the recent restructuring. while the bank does not believe this change in legal restrictions resulting from the restructuring will constrain the bank from executing any capital plans that are currently contemplated or otherwise reasonably foreseeable in the near term, there can be no assurance that the change in legal restrictions will not have an adverse effect on the bank's ability to pay dividends and repurchase or redeem stock in the future. shares of common stock of a national bank are assessable, which may cause investors to view the bank's common stock less favorably than that of zions bancorporation prior to the restructuring. the national bank act provides that under certain circumstances the common stock of a national bank is assessable, i.e., holders may be subject to a levy for more funds if so determined by the occ. in contrast, the common stock of state corporations is not subject to assessment. however, the occ has confirmed that under the applicable provisions of the national bank act, assessability is limited to the par value of a national bank's stock. the bank's common stock has a par value of $0.001. moreover, according to the occ, it has not exercised its authority to levy assessments since 1933 and views the assessability authority as a mechanism for addressing capital deficiency that has long been overtaken by developments in statute and regulation, including robust capital standards, prompt corrective action requirements and supervisory and enforcement authorities requiring an institution to maintain capital at a particular level. nonetheless, potential investors may be unfamiliar with the concept of assessment and, as a result, view the bank less favorably as an investment. the ability of investors to access financial and other reports filed by the bank readily could be adversely affected if such reports were not able to be made available publicly through the sec or a system operated by the occ comparable to that of the sec. the bank has been permitted and currently makes its exchange act filings as a voluntary filer with the sec. however, there can be no assurance that the occ or sec will continue to allow the bank to make filings as a voluntary filer or that the occ will develop a comparable system for making exchange act filings publicly available. if the bank's exchange act filings ceased to be as readily available as those of bank holding companies, investors could view the bank less favorably. the bank's ability to issue securities in an optimal manner may be adversely affected by the fact that the occ's securities offering regulations and organizational structure are less well developed than those of the sec, which applied to the bank's holding company prior to the restructuring. the sec maintains a well-developed regulatory regime and well-staffed organization relating to securities offerings under or exempt from the securities act. for example, the sec has developed integrated disclosure rules, which allow exchange act filings to be incorporated by reference into prospectuses distributed as required by the securities act. in addition, under the sec's rules seasoned issuers who are timely in their filings are permitted to use automatic shelf registration, allowing them to offer securities under a registration statement that is automatically effective upon filing. the occ maintains its own securities offering regime applicable to national banks and their securities offerings, with which the bank will need to comply in order to access the public capital markets. similar to the sec's offering rules, the occ's regime requires that registration statements be reviewed and declared or become effective. however, given that there are currently no other nationally-charted banks whose common stock has been issued under the occ's securities offering regime, it is unknown at this point whether and how the occ staff would review registration statements. it's also unclear whether the occ would apply the same mechanics for automatic shelf registration filings used by sec-filers, or how, more generally, the occ will function as a securities regulator. given the extent to and manner in which the bank has accessed capital markets historically, or to which it currently contemplates accessing such markets, the bank does not believe there will be a material adverse impact on the bank's ability to access capital markets effectively, although there can be no assurance that this will be the case. it is possible that operating under the occ's securities offering regime could 22 table of contents zions bancorporation, national association and subsidiaries impede the bank's ability to sell securities at the most advantageous times or to achieve optimum pricing in offerings. the bank is subject to restrictions on permissible activities that would limit the types of business it may conduct and that may make acquisitions of other financial companies more challenging. under applicable laws and regulations, bank holding companies and banks are generally limited to business activities and investments that are related to banking or are financial in nature. the range of permissible financial activities is set forth in the gramm-leach-bliley act and is more limited for banks than for bank holding company organizations. the differences relate mainly to insurance underwriting (but not insurance agency activities) and merchant banking (but not broker-dealer and investment advisory activities). loss of the bank holding company status, as a result of the restructuring, could make future acquisitions of financial institutions with such operations more challenging. the bank's common stock is not an insured deposit. shares of the bank's common stock are not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in value are not insured by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. investment in shares of the bank's common stock is inherently risky and is subject to the same market forces and investment risks that affect the price of common stock in any other company, including the possible loss of some or all principal invested. reputational risk the bank is presented with various reputational risk issues that could stem from operational, regulatory/compliance and legal risks. a reputational risk council was established to monitor, manage and develop strategies to effectively manage reputational risk which includes, but is not limited to, addressing communication logistics, legal and regulatory issues. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 64 and is hereby incorporated by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk - 42-44 -quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54-57quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 63quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69-73risk factors 5-6 20, 62-76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68-72risk factors. 9 risk factors the following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the company: credit risk is one of our most significant risks. over the last three years we have experienced historically high levels of credit quality. we do not see any indications that credit quality will deteriorate significantly, but it is unlikely that we will be able to maintain credit quality at these levels indefinitely. economic conditions in the high growth geographical areas in which our banks operate have been strong, but events could result in weaker economic conditions including deterioration of property values that could significantly increase the company credit risk. net interest income is the largest component of the company revenue. the management of interest rate risk for the company and all bank subsidiaries is centralized and overseen by an asset liability management committee appointed by the company board of directors. the company has been successful in its interest rate risk management as evidenced by its achieving a relatively stable interest rate margin over the last several years when interest rates have been volatile and the rate environment challenging. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits and volatile market interest rates subject to general economic conditions and the polices of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the company provides to its customers a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements therefore pose an ongoing risk. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. we have a number of business initiatives that, while we believe they will ultimately produce profits for our shareholders, currently generate expenses in excess of revenues. two significant initiatives are contango, a wealth management business started in 2004, and netdeposit, a subsidiary that provides electronic check processing systems. our management of these businesses takes into account the development of revenues and control of expenses so that results of operations are not adverse to an extent that is not warranted by the expected opportunities these businesses provide. as noted previously, u.s. and international regulators have proposed new capital standards commonly known as basel ii. these standards would apply to a number of our largest competitors and potentially give them a significant competitive advantage over 9 table of contents banks that do not adopt these standards. sophisticated systems and data are required to adopt basel ii standards; the company does not yet have these systems and data. while the company is developing some of the systems, data, and analytical capabilities required to adopt basel ii, adoption is difficult and the company has not yet decided that it will or can adopt basel ii. more recently, u.s. banking regulators issued another npr which might reduce competitive inequities for modifications to the basel i framework for those banks not adopting basel ii, called basel ia. the basel ia npr will allow non-basel ii banking organizations the choice of adopting all of the revisions suggested in the proposed npr or continuing the use of existing risk-based capital rules. however, our initial analysis indicates that a significant risk of competitive inequity would persist between banks operating under basel ia and those using basel ii by potentially allowing basel ii banks to operate with lower levels of capital for certain lines of business. from time to time the company makes acquisitions. the success of any acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the projected cost savings from the merger and on the continued growth and profitability of the acquisition target. we have been successful with most prior mergers, but it is possible that the merger and integration process with an acquisition target could result in the loss of key employees, disruptions in controls, procedures and policies, or other factors that could affect our ability to realize the projected savings and successfully retain and grow the target customer base. the company board of directors has established an enterprise-wide risk management policy and appointed an enterprise risk management committee to oversee and implement the policy. in addition to credit and interest rate risk, the committee also oversees and monitors the following risk areas: market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, information technology risk, strategic risk, and reputation risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 100 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 86 and is hereby incorporated by reference. 100 table of contentsrisk factors. 9 risk factors the following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the company including but not limited to: credit risk is one of our most significant risks. the company level of credit quality weakened during the latter half of 2007 although it remained relatively strong compared to historical company and industry standards. the deterioration in credit quality was mainly related to weakness in loans related to residential land acquisition, development and construction in arizona, california, and nevada and could weaken further in 2008. we have not seen any evidence of significant deterioration in other components of our lending portfolio, but worsening economic conditions including further declines in property values could result in deterioration in other components of the portfolio. economic conditions in the high growth southwestern geographical areas in which our banks operate have been weakening and continued economic weakness could result in further deterioration of property values that could significantly increase the company credit risk. net interest income is the largest component of the company revenue. the management of interest rate risk for the company and all bank subsidiaries is centralized and overseen by an asset liability management committee appointed by the company board of directors. the company has been successful in its interest rate risk management as evidenced by its achieving a relatively stable interest rate margin over the last several years when interest rates have been volatile and the rate environment challenging. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates subject to general economic conditions and the polices of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. 9 table of contents funding availability, as opposed to funding cost, became a more important risk factor in the latter half of 2007, as what has been described as a global liquidity crisis affected financial institutions generally, including the company. it is expected that liquidity stresses will continue to be a risk factor in 2008 for the company, the parent and its affiliate banks, and for lockhart funding, llc ( lockhart ). zions bank sponsors an off-balance sheet qualifying special-purpose entity ( qspe ), lockhart, which funds its assets by issuing asset-backed commercial paper. its assets include aaa-rated securities that are collateralized by small business loans, u.s. government, agency and other aa-rated securities. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence whether lockhart will remain as an off-balance sheet qspe and whether the company will be required to purchase securities and possibly incur losses on the securities from lockhart under the provisions of a liquidity agreement the company provides to lockhart. these factors include lockhart inability to issue asset-backed commercial paper, rating agency downgrades of securities, and instability in the credit markets. the company on-balance sheet asset-backed securities investment portfolio includes collateralized debt obligations ( cdos ) collateralized by trust preferred securities issued by banks, insurance companies, and real estate investment trusts ( reits ) that may have some exposure to the subprime market. in addition, asset-backed securities also include structured asset-backed collateralized debt obligations ( abs cdos ) (also known as diversified structured finance cdos) purchased from lockhart which have minimal exposure to subprime and home equity mortgage securitizations. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the fair value of these securities and potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. these factors include but are not limited to rating agency downgrades of securities, defaults of collateralized debt issuers, lack of market pricing of securities, rating agency downgrades of monoline insurers that insure certain asset-backed securities, and continued instability in the credit markets. see investment securities portfolio on page 77 for further details. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the company provides to its customers a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements therefore pose an ongoing risk. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. as noted previously, u.s. and international regulators have adopted new capital standards commonly known as basel ii. these standards would apply to a number of our largest competitors and potentially give them a significant competitive advantage over banks that do not adopt these standards. sophisticated systems and data are required to adopt basel ii standards; the company does not yet have these systems and data. while the company is developing some of the systems, data, and analytical capabilities required to adopt basel ii, adoption is difficult and the company has not yet decided that it will or can adopt basel ii. 10 table of contents more recently, u.s. banking regulators issued the final rule which requires banks with over $250 billion in consolidated total assets or on-balance sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion (core banks) to adopt the advanced approach of basel ii while allowing other banks to elect to opt in. we do not currently expect to be an early opt in bank holding company. however, our initial analysis indicates that a significant risk of competitive inequity may exist between banks operating under basel ii and those not using basel ii by potentially allowing basel ii banks to operate with lower levels of capital for certain lines of business. from time to time the company makes acquisitions. the success of any acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the projected cost savings from the merger and on the continued growth and profitability of the acquisition target. we have been successful with most prior mergers, but it is possible that the merger and integration process with an acquisition target could result in the loss of key employees, disruptions in controls, procedures and policies, or other factors that could affect our ability to realize the projected savings and successfully retain and grow the target customer base. the company board of directors established an enterprise-wide risk management policy and appointed an enterprise risk management committee in late 2005 to oversee and implement the policy. in addition to credit and interest rate risk, the committee also monitors the following risk areas: market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk, information technology risk, strategic risk, and reputation risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 113 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 98 and is hereby incorporated by reference. 113 table of contentsrisk factors. 11 risk factors the following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the company including but not limited to: the united states and other countries are facing a severe economic crisis. in response the united states and other governments have established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. many of these programs and policies are unprecedented and untested and may not be effective or may have adverse consequences, whether anticipated or unanticipated. if these programs and policies are ineffective or result in substantial adverse developments, the economic crisis may become more severe or may continue for a substantial period of time. any increase in the severity or duration of the economic crisis would adversely affect the company. the company has chosen to participate in a number of new programs sponsored by the u.s. government during the current financial and economic crisis, and in the future may elect to or be required to participate in these or other, as not yet enacted, programs. the company is therefore subject to the risk that these programs may not be available in the future, or that it will be forced to participate in programs that it does not believe to be in its best interest or that of its shareholders. these programs, including the tarp and its associated cpp, the tlgp, the taf, and the cpff, as well as the arra and eesa, contain important limitations on the company conduct of its business, including limitations on dividends, repurchases of common stock, acquisitions, and executive compensation contained in the cpp and the arra. these limitations may adversely impact the company ability to attract nongovernmental capital and to recruit and retain executive management and other personnel and its ability to compete with other american and foreign financial institutions. one of these programs, the cpp, contains provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally modify any term or provision of contracts executed under the program. certain provisions of the essa and arra and related rules and regulations may lead certain financial institutions to elect not to participate in governmental programs designed to mitigate the current economic crisis, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of such programs and creating additional stresses on employees and customers of and investors in american financial institutions. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. the company level of credit quality continued to weaken during 2008. the deterioration in credit quality is mainly related to the weakness in residential development and construction activity in the southwest that started in the latter half of 2007. although not to the degree experienced in the southwestern states (generally arizona, nevada and california), some signs of deterioration began to surface in utah and idaho during the first quarter of 2008 and in the texas market in the fourth quarter of 2008. residential construction and land development loans in arizona and nevada remain the most troubled segments of the portfolio and account for the most meaningful declines in commercial real estate credit quality during the last half of 2008. we expect continued credit quality deterioration over the next few quarters. with the economy continuing to weaken, there is a risk that credit quality could be adversely impacted throughout our geographic footprint and for other loan types. net interest income is the largest component of the company revenue. the management of interest rate risk for the company and all bank subsidiaries is centralized and overseen by an asset liability management committee appointed by the company board of directors. the company has been successful in its interest rate risk management as evidenced by its achieving a relatively stable net interest margin over the last several years when interest rates have been volatile and the rate environment challenging. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates subject to general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. 11 table of contents funding availability, as opposed to funding cost, became a more important risk factor in the latter half of 2007 and in 2008, as a global liquidity crisis affected financial institutions generally, including the company, and is expected to remain an issue in 2009. however, this global liquidity crisis was partially mitigated as the company strengthened its capital and liquidity during the latter half of 2008, including raising approximately $300 million of common and preferred equity, a capital investment of $1.4 billion from the u.s. treasury as part of the treasury cpp, as well as its participation in the taf, and the tlgp. see capital management on page 119 in md&amp;a and notes 11 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on funding availability. it is expected that liquidity stresses will continue to be a risk factor in 2009 for the company, the parent and its affiliate banks, and for lockhart funding, llc ( lockhart ). lockhart participation in the cpff has mitigated these stresses for it; however, this program is currently scheduled to expire in october 2009. zions bank sponsors an off-balance sheet qualifying special-purpose entity ( qspe ), lockhart, which funds its assets by issuing asset-backed commercial paper. its assets include securities which are rated aaa and aa or guaranteed by the u.s. government. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence whether lockhart will remain as an off-balance sheet qspe and whether the company will be required to purchase, and possibly incur losses, on securities from lockhart under the provisions of a liquidity agreement the company provides to lockhart. these factors include lockhart inability to issue asset-backed commercial paper, expiration of the federal reserve cpff without sufficient offsetting market demand for lockhart commercial paper, rating agency downgrades of securities, and instability in the credit markets. the company on-balance sheet asset-backed securities investment portfolio includes collateralized debt obligations ( cdos ) collateralized by trust preferred securities issued by banks, insurance companies, and real estate investment trusts ( reits ) that may have some exposure to the subprime market and/or to other categories of distressed assets. in addition, asset-backed securities also include structured asset-backed collateralized debt obligations ( abs cdos ) (also known as diversified structured finance cdos) purchased from lockhart which have minimal exposure to subprime and home equity mortgage securitizations. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the fair value of these securities and potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. these factors include but are not limited to rating agency downgrades of securities, defaults of debt issuers, lack of market pricing of securities, rating agency downgrades of monoline insurers that insure certain asset-backed securities, and continued instability in the credit markets. see investment securities portfolio on page 85 for further details. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the company provides to its customers a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements, including the bsa and various know your customer, identity theft red flag, and anti-money laundering regulations, therefore pose an ongoing risk. the company is subject to risks associated with legal claims and litigation. the company exposure to claims and litigation may increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the current economic crisis. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. as noted previously, u.s. and international regulators have adopted new capital standards commonly known as basel ii. as a bank holding company with less than $250 billion in consolidated total assets 12 table of contents and on-balance sheet foreign exposure of less than $10 billion, we can but are not required to adopt the advanced approach of basel ii. we have not as yet chosen to adopt it. however, these standards would apply to a number of our largest competitors and potentially give them a competitive advantage over banks that do not adopt these standards. whether or not this competitive disparity emerges, the company is continuing to develop systems, data and analytical capabilities that both enhance our internal risk management process and help facilitate basel ii adoption, if we choose to do so in the future. from time to time the company makes acquisitions. the success of any acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the projected cost savings from the merger and on the continued growth and profitability of the acquisition target. we have been successful with most prior mergers, but it is possible that the merger integration process with an acquisition target could result in the loss of key employees, disruptions in controls, procedures and policies, or other factors that could affect our ability to realize the projected savings and successfully retain and grow the target customer base. the company board of directors established an enterprise-wide risk management policy and appointed an enterprise risk management committee in 2005 to oversee and implement the policy. in addition to credit and interest rate risk, the committee also monitors the following risk areas: market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk, information technology risk, strategic risk, and reputation risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 122 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 110 and is hereby incorporated by reference. 122 table of contentsrisk factors. 12 risk factors the following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the company including but not limited to: the company has been and could continue to be negatively affected by recent adverse economic conditions. the united states and many other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession which has not yet been resolved. these adverse economic conditions have negatively affected, and are likely to continue for some time to adversely affect, the company assets, including its loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. in response to the economic crisis, the united states and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. these programs and policies appear to have stabilized the severe financial crisis that occurred in the second half of 2008, but the extent to which these programs and policies will assist in an economic recovery or may lead to adverse consequences, whether anticipated or unanticipated, is still unclear. if these programs and policies are ineffective in bringing about an economic recovery or result in substantial adverse developments, the economic conditions may again become more severe, or adverse economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions or delay in the recovery from them would adversely affect the company. our participation in the cpp and other government programs imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the equity capital markets. the company has chosen to participate in a number of new programs sponsored by the u.s. government during the current financial and economic crisis. these programs, including without limitation the tarp and its associated cpp, as well as the arra and eesa and regulations thereunder, contain important limitations on the company conduct of its business, including limitations on dividends, repurchases of common stock, acquisitions, and executive compensation. these limitations may adversely impact the company ability to attract nongovernmental capital and to recruit and retain executive management and other personnel and its ability to compete with other american and foreign financial institutions. one of these programs, the cpp, contains provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally modify any term or provision of contracts executed under the program. legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our operations. in response to the recent economic crisis, various legislative proposals that would materially restructure the regulatory framework governing the financial services industry have been introduced or are being considered for introduction in congress. these proposals include, but are not limited to: the establishment of new regulatory bodies with authority over consumer protection and systemic risk; the elimination or modification of responsibilities and independence of certain existing regulatory agencies; the grant of authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks; the imposition of substantial new fees or taxes on banking organizations or classes of banking organizations; limitations on the size of banking organizations or the imposition of heightened costs or burdens associated with asset size; and the introduction of new resolution authority and processes for entities in the financial services industry. also in response to the recent economic crisis, bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or appear to be considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation. these include, but are not limited to: new capital and liquidity standards imposing higher levels and different mixes of capital and having new liquidity requirements than those contained in current regulations; 12 table of contents new capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital-raising; new and accelerated fdic insurance premiums; limitations on the amount and manner of compensation paid to executive officers and employees generally; and restrictions on the types of products and services offered by banking organizations. some of these proposals could adversely affect the company by, among other things: impacting after tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting the company ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of the company funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that the company could offer; exposing the company to costly litigation and regulatory actions and increasing the cost of regulatory compliance; requiring the company to raise capital at inopportune times; and making it difficult for the company to compete with other banking and nonbanking companies to recruit and retain executives and other employees. others of these proposals may actually favorably impact the company by affecting some of its competitors more adversely than the company. the ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted, as it is unclear which, if any, may eventually be enacted into law or regulation. economic and other circumstances, including pressure to repay tarp preferred stock, may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the company. the company subsidiary banks must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by their banking regulators and which can change depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. compliance with capital requirements may limit the company ability to expand and has required, and may require, capital investment from the parent. in 2008, we issued shares of preferred stock for $1.4 billion and a warrant to purchase shares of the company common stock to the u.s. treasury under tarp. there may be increasing market, regulatory or political pressure on the company to raise capital to enable it to repay the preferred stock issued to the u.s. treasury under tarp at a time or in amounts that may be unfavorable to the company shareholders. these uncertainties and risks created by the legislative and regulatory uncertainties discussed above may themselves increase the company cost of capital and other financing costs. negative perceptions associated with our continued participation in the u.s. treasury tarp may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors, and compete for new business opportunities. several financial institutions which also participated in the cpp have repurchased their tarp preferred stock. there can be no assurance as to the timing or manner in which the company may repurchase its tarp preferred stock from the u.s. treasury. our customers, employees and counterparties in our current and future business relationships could draw negative implications regarding the strength of the company as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the tarp following the exit of one or more of our competitors or other financial institutions. any such negative perceptions could impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. if this were to occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. credit quality has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. the company level of credit quality continued to weaken during 2009 in most loan types and markets in which the company operates. we expect continued credit quality weakness over the next few quarters. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the company revenue. the management of interest rate risk for the company and all bank subsidiaries is centralized and overseen by an asset liability management committee appointed by the company board of directors. the company has been successful in its interest rate 13 table of contents risk management as evidenced by achieving a relatively stable net interest margin over the last several years when interest rates have been volatile and the rate environment challenging. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates subject to general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. our ability to maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. funding availability, as opposed to funding cost, remained a more important risk factor during 2009, as a global liquidity crisis continued to affect financial institutions generally, including the company. however, the company was able to take a number of actions during the year to augment its capital and liquidity (see capital management on page 126 in md&amp;a and notes 11, 13 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on funding availability). it is expected that liquidity stresses will continue to be a risk factor in 2010 for the company, the parent and its affiliate banks. the quality and liquidity of our asset-backed securities investment portfolio has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. the company asset-backed securities investment portfolio includes collateralized debt obligations ( cdos ) collateralized by trust preferred securities issued by banks, insurance companies, and real estate investment trusts ( reits ) that may have some exposure to construction loan, commercial real estate, and the subprime markets and/or to other categories of distressed assets. in addition, asset-backed securities also include structured asset-backed collateralized debt obligations ( abs cdos ) (also known as diversified structured finance cdos) which have minimal exposure to subprime and home equity mortgage securitizations. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the fair value and impairment status of these securities. these factors include but are not limited to defaults and deferrals by debt issuers, rating agency downgrades of securities, lack of market pricing of securities or the return of market pricing that varies from the company current model valuations, rating agency downgrades of monoline insurers that insure certain asset-backed securities, continued instability in the credit markets, and changes in prepayment rates and future interest rates. see investment securities portfolio on page 91 for further details. we have been unprofitable and may continue to be unprofitable, and such lack of profitability could have particular adverse effects on us, such as restricting our ability to pay dividends or requiring a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset. the parent and certain of its subsidiary banks have been unprofitable in each of the most recent five quarters. the ability of banks and bank holding companies to pay dividends is restricted by regulatory requirements, including profitability and the need to maintain required levels of capital. continuing lack of profitability exposes the company to the risk that regulators could restrict the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends to the parent and/or of the parent to declare and pay dividends on its common stock, preferred stock or trust preferred securities. it also increases the risk that the company may have to establish a valuation allowance against its net deferred tax asset ( dta ). the parent and some of its subsidiary banks already have some disallowed dta for regulatory capital purposes. we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates and particular classes of securities that we and our affiliates issue. the interest rates we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates, and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. the rating agencies have in the past downgraded our ratings. further downgrades could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on the market price of our securities, our ability to access capital markets, or our results of operations or financial condition. 14 table of contents we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the company provides to its customers, and uses for its own capital, funding and risk management needs, a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements, therefore pose an ongoing risk. we could be adversely affected by litigation and legal claims. the company is subject to risks associated with legal claims and litigation. the company exposure to claims and litigation has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the current economic crisis or otherwise. we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. we could be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. from time to time the company makes acquisitions including the acquisition of assets and liabilities of failed banks from the fdic acting as a receiver. the fdic-supported transactions are subject to loan loss sharing agreements. failure to comply with the terms of the agreements could result in the loss of indemnification from the fdic. the success of any acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the projected cost savings from the acquisition and on the continued growth and profitability of the acquisition target. we have been successful with most prior acquisitions, but it is possible that the merger integration process with an acquisition target could result in the loss of key employees, disruptions in controls, procedures and policies, or other factors that could affect our ability to realize the projected savings and successfully retain and grow the target customer base. the company board of directors has established an enterprise risk management policy and has appointed an enterprise risk management committee to oversee and implement the policy. in addition to credit and interest rate risk, the committee also monitors the following risk areas: market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk, information technology risk, strategic risk, compensation-related risk, and reputation risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 130 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 116 and is hereby incorporated by reference. 130 table of contentsrisk factors. 13 risk factors the following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the company including but not limited to: the company has been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. the united states and many other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession. these adverse economic conditions have negatively affected, and are likely to continue for some time to adversely affect, the company assets, including its loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. in response to the economic crisis, the united states and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. these programs and policies appear to have stabilized the severe financial crisis that occurred in the second half of 2008, but the extent to which these programs and policies will assist in an economic recovery or may lead to adverse consequences, whether anticipated or unanticipated, is still unclear. if these programs and policies are ineffective in bringing about an economic recovery or result in substantial adverse developments, the economic conditions may again become more severe, or adverse economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions, including a double dip recession or delay in the recovery, would adversely affect the company. the limitations on incentive compensation contained in the arra, the implementing of its regulations, and other bank regulations may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. because we have not yet repurchased the u.s. treasury cpp investment, we remain subject to the restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the arra. on june 10, 2009, the u.s. treasury released its interim final rules implementing the provisions of the arra and limiting the compensation practices at institutions in which the u.s. treasury is invested. the u.s. treasury has since revised such rules and released written guidance interpreting and expanding on arra and the interim final rules. financial institutions which have repurchased the u.s. treasury cpp investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the arra and its implementing regulations and related guidance. due to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have repurchased the u.s. treasury investment to attract, retain and appropriately incentivize high performing employees. in addition, bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. these regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel. if we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. our participation in the cpp and other government programs imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the equity capital markets. the company has chosen to participate in a number of new programs sponsored by the u.s. government during the current financial and economic crisis. these programs, including without limitation, the tarp and its associated cpp, as well as the arra and eesa and regulations thereunder, contain important limitations on the company conduct of its business, including limitations on dividends, repurchases of common stock, acquisitions, and executive compensation. these limitations may adversely impact the company ability to attract nongovernmental capital and to recruit and retain executive management and other personnel and its ability to compete with other american and foreign financial institutions. one of these programs, the cpp, contains provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally modify any term or provision of contracts executed under the program. 13 table of contents recently adopted financial reform legislation will impose significant new limitations on our business activities and subject us to increased regulation and additional costs. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act enacted on july 21, 2010 will have material implications for the company and the entire financial services industry. the act results in the company being defined as systemically important, which brings significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements. in addition, among other things, the act will or potentially could: affect the levels of capital and liquidity with which the company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels (including a phased-in elimination of the company existing trust preferred securities as tier 1 capital); subject the company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the fdic; impact the company ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; impact a number of the company business and risk management strategies; regulate the pricing of certain of our products and services and restrict the revenue that the company generates from certain businesses; subject the company to new capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital-raising; subject the company to a new consumer financial protection bureau, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; grant authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks; subject the company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and limit the amount and manner of compensation paid to executive officers and employees generally. as the act requires that many studies be conducted and that hundreds of regulations be written in order to fully implement it, the full impact of this legislation on the company, its business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for a number of years. in addition, the current political environment may lead, in the near future, to the adoption of new laws and regulations affecting financial institutions. u.s. regulatory agencies, in response to the adoption of basel iii, may require us to raise our capital and liquidity to levels that may exceed those that the market may otherwise consider to be optimal. basel iii was adopted in december 2010 by the bcbs. new capital and liquidity requirements are expected to be established by u.s. regulatory agencies in response to basel iii which are higher than previous levels. maintaining higher capital and liquidity levels may reduce our profitability and performance measures. economic and other circumstances, including pressure to repay cpp preferred stock, may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the company. the company subsidiary banks must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by their banking regulators which can change depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. compliance with capital requirements may limit the company ability to expand and has required, and may require, capital investment from the parent. in 2008, we issued shares of preferred stock and a warrant to purchase shares of the company common stock to the u.s. treasury for $1.4 billion under tarp. there may be increasing market, regulatory or political pressure on the 14 table of contents company to raise capital to enable it to repay the preferred stock issued to the u.s. treasury under tarp at a time or in amounts that may be unfavorable to the company shareholders. these uncertainties and risks created by the legislative and regulatory uncertainties discussed above may themselves increase the company cost of capital and other financing costs. negative perceptions associated with our continued participation in the u.s. treasury cpp may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors, and compete for new business opportunities. several financial institutions which also participated in the cpp have repurchased their tarp preferred stock. there can be no assurance as to the timing or manner in which the company may repurchase its series d preferred stock from the u.s. treasury. our customers, employees and counterparties in our current and future business relationships could draw negative implications regarding the strength of the company as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the cpp following the exit of one or more of our competitors or other financial institutions. any such negative perceptions could impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. if this were to occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. credit quality has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. the company credit quality continued at a weakened level during 2010 in most loan types and markets in which the company operates. although most credit quality indicators improved during latter half of 2010, we expect continued credit quality weakness over the next few quarters. weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within the markets where our subsidiary banks do business and within certain of our loan products, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. our credit exposure is one of our most significant risks. the company level of problem credits remained high as of december 31, 2010. the deterioration in credit quality that started in the latter half of 2007 has most significantly affected the construction and land development segment of our portfolio. although virtually all of our markets and lending segments have been adversely affected by the economic recession, the distress has been mostly concentrated in construction and land development loans in the southwest states (generally, arizona, california, and nevada), which markets have been particularly adversely affected by job losses, declines in residential and commercial sale volumes and real estate values, and declines in new construction activity. subsequent to the initial deterioration in construction and land development loans, credit quality deterioration occurred in most loan types and geographies in which the company operated through the first half of 2010 as general economic conditions weakened throughout the country. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we and our subsidiary banks conduct operations decline further, this could result in, among other things, further deterioration in credit quality and/or continued reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses; if such developments occur, we may be required to raise additional capital. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the company revenue. the management of interest rate risk for the company and all bank subsidiaries is centralized and overseen by an asset liability management committee appointed by the company board of directors. we have been successful in our interest rate risk 15 table of contents management as evidenced by achieving a relatively stable net interest margin over the last several years when interest rates have been volatile and the rate environment challenging; however, a failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates subject to general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. we are required to maintain certain capital levels in accordance with banking regulations and any capital requirements imposed by our regulators. we must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding, and liquidity has been and could continue to be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate and deteriorating economic and market conditions. each of our subsidiary banks must remain well-capitalized and meet certain other requirements for us to retain our status as a financial holding company. failure to comply with those requirements could result in a loss of our financial holding company status if such conditions are not corrected within 180 days or such longer period as may be permitted by the federal reserve, although we do not believe that the loss of such status would have an appreciable effect on our operations or financial results. in addition, failure by our bank subsidiaries to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements can result in certain activity restrictions or a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities that include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital and the termination of deposit insurance by the fdic. funding availability improved during 2010 as compared to 2009, as the company took a number of actions during the year to augment its capital and liquidity. more emphasis was placed upon low-cost funding during 2010 than merely funding availability (see capital management on page 84 in md&amp;a and notes 12 and 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information on funding availability). however, because liquidity stresses are often a consequence of the materialization of other risks, they will continue to be a risk factor in 2011 and beyond for the company, the parent and its affiliate banks. the quality and liquidity of our asset-backed investment securities portfolio has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. the company asset-backed investment securities portfolio includes cdos collateralized by trust preferred securities issued by banks, insurance companies, and reits that may have some exposure to construction loan, commercial real estate, and the subprime markets and/or to other categories of distressed assets. in addition, asset-backed securities also include structured asset-backed cdos (also known as diversified structured finance cdos) which have exposure to subprime and home equity mortgage securitizations. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the fair value and impairment status of these securities. these factors include, but are not limited to, defaults, deferrals, and restructurings by debt issuers, rating agency downgrades of securities, lack of market pricing of securities, or the return of market pricing that varies from the company current model valuations, and changes in prepayment rates and future interest rates. see investment securities portfolio on page 52 for further details. we have been unprofitable and may continue to be unprofitable, and such lack of profitability could have particular adverse effects on us, such as restricting our ability to pay dividends or requiring a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset. we are a holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through its banking and other subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to make dividend payments on our common stock will depend primarily 16 table of contents upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. we and certain of our subsidiaries have been unprofitable during the last three annual reporting periods. during 2009 and 2010, the noncash accelerated amortization expense caused by subordinated debt holders converting their debt to preferred stock has contributed to our unprofitability. future conversions of subordinated debt into preferred stock may continue to contribute to unprofitability. the ability of the company and our subsidiary banks to pay dividends is restricted by regulatory requirements, including profitability and the need to maintain required levels of capital. continuing lack of profitability exposes us to the risk that regulators could restrict the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends and our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock, preferred stock or trust preferred securities. it also increases the risk that the company may have to establish a valuation allowance against its net dta. the parent and some of its subsidiary banks already have some disallowed dta for regulatory capital purposes. we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates, and particular classes of securities that we and our affiliates issue. the interest rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates, and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. in the past, rating agencies have downgraded our credit ratings. further downgrades to us, our affiliates, or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities. we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the company provides to its customers, and uses for its own capital, funding and risk management needs, a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements, therefore pose an ongoing risk. we could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings. the company is subject to risks associated with legal claims, fines, litigation, and regulatory proceedings. the company exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the current economic environment; new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes; and the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies. we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. we could be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. from time to time the company makes acquisitions including the acquisition of assets and liabilities of failed banks from the fdic acting as a receiver. the fdic-supported transactions are subject to loan loss sharing agreements. failure to comply with the terms of the agreements could result in the loss of indemnification from the fdic. the success of any acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the projected cost 17 table of contents savings from the acquisition and on the continued growth and profitability of the acquisition target. we have been successful with most prior acquisitions, but it is possible that the merger integration process with an acquired company could result in the loss of key employees, disruptions in controls, procedures and policies, or other factors that could affect our ability to realize the projected savings and successfully retain and grow the target customer base. the company board of directors has established an enterprise risk management policy and has appointed an enterprise risk management committee to oversee and implement the policy. in addition to credit and interest rate risk, the committee also monitors the following risk areas: market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk, information technology risk, strategic risk, compensation-related risk, and reputation risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 90 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 74 and is hereby incorporated by reference. 90 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors the company board of directors has established a risk oversight committee and an enterprise risk management policy and has appointed an enterprise risk management committee to oversee and implement the policy. in addition to credit and interest rate risk, the committee also monitors the following risk areas: market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk, information technology risk, strategic risk, compensation-related risk, and reputation risk. the following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the company including but not limited to: the company has been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. the united states and many other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession. these adverse economic conditions have negatively affected, and are likely to continue for some time to adversely affect, the company assets, including its loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. in response to the economic crisis, the united states and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. these programs and policies appear to have stabilized in the united states the severe financial crisis that occurred in the second half of 2008, but adverse economic conditions continue to exist in the united states and globally. concerns about the european union sovereign debt crisis have continued to cause uncertainty for financial markets globally. it is possible economic conditions may again become more severe or that adverse economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. in addition, economic uncertainty resulting from possible changes in the ratings of sovereign debt issued by the united states and other nations, and fiscal imbalances in the united states, at federal, state and municipal levels, in the european union and in other countries, combined with political difficulties in resolving these imbalances, may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic conditions faced by the company and its customers. any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions, including a double-dip recession or delay a full economic recovery, would adversely affect the company. our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. the regulation of incentive compensation under the dodd-frank act, the eesa and the arra may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. the bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. these regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel. in addition, because we have not yet repurchased the 13 table of contents u.s. treasury cpp investment, we remain subject to the strict restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the arra. financial institutions which have repurchased the u.s. treasury cpp investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the arra. due to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have repurchased the u.s. treasury investment to attract, retain and appropriately incentivize high performing employees. in addition, bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. if we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. stress testing and capital management under dodd-frank, as well as the terms of the u.s. treasury cpp investment limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets. under emerging stress testing and capital management standards being developed by bank regulatory agencies under dodd-frank, as well as the terms of the u.s. treasury cpp investment in us, the bank regulatory agencies have additional authority and processes to require us to limit our dividends, repurchases of common stock, and access to capital markets for certain types of capital. among other things, any increase in quarterly dividends not contemplated in our annual capital plan will require frb approval. these limitations may adversely impact the company ability to attract nongovernmental capital. we have been unprofitable in two of the last three years and could potentially be unprofitable in the future, and such lack of profitability could have particular adverse effects on us, such as restricting our ability to pay dividends or requiring a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset. we are a holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through its banking and other subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to make dividend payments on our common stock will depend primarily upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. we and certain of our subsidiaries have been unprofitable during the two of the last three annual reporting periods. during the last three years, the noncash accelerated discount amortization expense caused by subordinated debt holders converting their debt to preferred stock has contributed to our lack of profitability. future conversions of subordinated debt into preferred stock may continue to hurt our profitability. the ability of the company and our subsidiary banks to pay dividends is restricted by regulatory requirements, including profitability and the need to maintain required levels of capital. lack of profitability exposes us to the risk that regulators could restrict the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends and our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock, preferred stock or trust preferred securities. it also increases the risk that the company may have to establish a valuation allowance against its net dta. some of the company subsidiary banks have disallowed a portion of their dta for regulatory capital purposes. the dodd-frank act imposes significant new limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs. the dodd-frank act has material implications for the company and the entire financial services industry. the act places significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions, including the company, with more than $50 billion of assets. in addition, among other things, the act will or potentially could: affect the levels of capital and liquidity with which the company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels (including a phased-in elimination of the company existing trust preferred securities as tier 1 capital); subject the company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the fdic; impact the company ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; 14 table of contents impact a number of the company business and risk management strategies; regulate the pricing of certain of our products and services and restrict the revenue that the company generates from certain businesses; subject the company to new capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital-raising; subject the company to the consumer financial protection bureau, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; grant authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks; subject the company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and limit the amount and manner of compensation paid to executive officers and employees generally. because the responsible agencies are still in the process of proposing and finalizing regulations required under dodd-frank, the full impact of this legislation on the company, its business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for some time. individually and collectively, these proposed regulations resulting from the dodd-frank act may materially adversely affect the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. u.s. regulatory agencies, in response to the adoption of basel iii and title i of the dodd-frank act, will require us to raise our capital and liquidity to levels that may exceed those that the market considers to be optimal. basel iii was adopted in december 2010 by the bcbs and provides an international framework for the establishment of bank capital standards. title i of the dodd-frank act requires that banking organizations of our size undergo regular stress testing of their capital, assets and profitability and authorizes bank regulatory agencies to promulgate new capital and liquidity standards. new capital and liquidity requirements are being developed by u.s. regulatory agencies in response to basel iii and dodd-frank which are higher than previous levels. maintaining higher capital and liquidity levels may reduce our profitability and performance measures. economic and other circumstances, including pressure to repay cpp preferred stock, may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the company. the company subsidiary banks must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by their banking regulators which can change depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. compliance with capital requirements may limit the company ability to expand and has required, and may require, capital investment from the parent. in 2008, we issued shares of preferred stock and a warrant to purchase shares of the company common stock to the u.s. treasury for $1.4 billion under tarp. there may be increasing market, regulatory or political pressure on the company to raise capital to enable it to repay the preferred stock issued to the u.s. treasury under tarp at a time or in amounts that may be unfavorable to the company shareholders. these uncertainties and risks created by the legislative and regulatory uncertainties discussed above may themselves increase the company cost of capital and other financing costs. negative perceptions associated with our continued participation in the u.s. treasury cpp may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors, and compete for new business opportunities. several financial institutions that also participated in the cpp have repurchased their tarp preferred stock. there can be no assurance as to the timing or manner in which the company may repurchase its series d preferred stock from the u.s. treasury. our customers, employees and counterparties in our current and future business relationships could draw negative implications regarding the strength of the company as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the cpp. any such negative perceptions could impair our 15 table of contents ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. if this were to occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. credit quality has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. credit risk is one of our most significant risks. although most credit quality indicators continued to improve during 2011, the company credit quality may continue to show weakness in some loan types and markets in which the company operates in 2012 as the economic recovery progresses. failure to effectively manage our credit concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect us. increases in concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the company. concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the company due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. the management of concentration risk is centralized and overseen by the corporate concentration risk committee, which routinely analyzes aggregate exposure, industries, and correlations. counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk, but it is routinely monitored and analyzed. weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within the markets where our subsidiary banks do business and within certain of our loan products, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. credit exposure is one of our most significant risks. the company level of problem credits remained relatively high as of december 31, 2011. the deterioration in credit quality that started in the latter half of 2007 has most significantly affected the construction and land development segment of our portfolio. although virtually all of our markets and lending segments have been adversely affected by the economic recession, the distress has been mostly concentrated in construction and land development loans in the southwest states (generally, arizona, california, and nevada), which markets have been particularly adversely affected by job losses, declines in residential and commercial sale volumes and real estate values, and declines in new construction activity. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we and our subsidiary banks conduct operations decline further, this could result in, among other things, further deterioration in credit quality and/or continued reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses; if such developments occur, we may be required to raise additional capital. failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk, and prolonged periods of low interest rates, could adversely affect us. net interest income is the largest component of the company revenue. the management of interest rate risk for the company and all bank subsidiaries is centralized and overseen by an asset liability management committee appointed by the company board of directors. we have been successful in our interest rate risk management as evidenced by achieving a relatively stable net interest margin over the last several years when interest rates have been volatile and the rate environment challenging; however, a failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the company risk. these factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates subject to general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the frb. the frb has stated its expectations that short-term interest rates may remain low through late 2014. such a scenario may continue to create or exacerbate margin compression for us as a result of repricing of longer-term loans. 16 table of contents our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. we are required to maintain certain capital levels in accordance with banking regulations and any capital requirements imposed by our regulators. we must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding, and liquidity has been and could continue to be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate and deteriorating economic and market conditions. each of our subsidiary banks must remain well-capitalized and meet certain other requirements for us to retain our status as a financial holding company. failure to comply with those requirements could result in a loss of our financial holding company status if such conditions are not corrected within 180 days or such longer period as may be permitted by the frb, although we do not believe that the loss of such status would have an appreciable effect on our operations or financial results. in addition, failure by our bank subsidiaries to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements can result in certain activity restrictions or a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities that include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital and the termination of deposit insurance by the fdic. funding availability continued to improve during 2011. however, because liquidity stresses are often a consequence of the occurrence of other risks, they will continue to be a risk factor in 2012 and beyond for the company, the parent and its affiliate banks. the quality and liquidity of our asset-backed investment securities portfolio has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. the company asset-backed investment securities portfolio includes cdos collateralized by trust preferred securities issued by bank holding companies, insurance companies, and reits that may have some exposure to construction loan, commercial real estate, and the subprime markets and/or to other categories of distressed assets. in addition, asset-backed securities also include structured asset-backed cdos (also known as diversified structured finance cdos) which have exposure to subprime and home equity mortgage securitizations. factors beyond the company control can significantly influence the fair value and impairment status of these securities. these factors include, but are not limited to, defaults, deferrals, and restructurings by debt issuers, rating agency downgrades of securities, lack of market pricing of securities, or the return of market pricing that varies from the company current model valuations, and changes in prepayment rates and future interest rates. see investment securities portfolio on page 52 for further details. we and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates, and particular classes of securities that we and our affiliates issue. the interest rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates, and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. in the past, rating agencies have downgraded our credit ratings. further downgrades to us, our affiliates, or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities. we could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk. the company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. the level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. the administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the company to comply before their formal adoption. 17 table of contents the company provides to its customers, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs, a number of complex financial products and services. estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements, therefore pose an ongoing risk. we could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings. the company is subject to risks associated with legal claims, fines, litigation, and regulatory proceedings. the company exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the current economic environment; new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes; and the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies. we could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls. a failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the company. we continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. we could be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. from time to time the company makes acquisitions including the acquisition of assets and liabilities of failed banks from the fdic acting as a receiver. the fdic-supported transactions are subject to loan loss sharing agreements. failure to comply with the terms of the agreements could result in the loss of indemnification from the fdic. the success of any acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the projected cost savings from the acquisition and on the continued growth and profitability of the acquisition target. we have been successful with most prior acquisitions, but it is possible that the merger integration process with an acquired company could result in the loss of key employees, disruptions in controls, procedures and policies, or other factors that could affect our ability to realize the projected savings and successfully retain and grow the target customer base. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 93 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is included in interest rate and market risk management in md&amp;a beginning on page 79 and is hereby incorporated by reference. 93 table of contents