risk factors 16 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products which may negatively impact our sales, operating cash flow and earnings. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one-quarter of our sales. demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, a depressed housing market, or low consumer confidence could contribute to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. many consumers continue to postpone spending on larger ticket items such as bedding and furniture. if economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. costs of raw materials could negatively affect our profit margins and earnings. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices combined with higher cost inventory can reduce our segment margins and earnings. steel is our principal raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of fabrics and foam scrap. we experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of these commodities in recent years. as a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). if scrap costs raise more rapidly than the price of steel rod, the metal margins within our rod producing operation will be compressed. compressed metal margins could negatively impact our result of operations. higher raw material costs in recent years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this primarily impacted our residential furnishings and industrial materials product mix and decreased profit margins. this trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. 16 table of contents part i competition could adversely affect our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia and europe. in addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. they may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed by foreign competitors. premium non-innerspring mattresses (those that have either a foam or air core) have experienced rapid growth in the u.s. bedding market in recent years. while still a relatively small portion of the total market in units (approximately 10%-15%), these products represent a much larger portion of the total market in dollars (approximately 25%-30%) due to their higher average selling prices. if sales of foam or air core mattresses continue to grow appreciably, it could reduce our market share in the u.s. bedding market, and negatively impact our sales and earnings. our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2012, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1.2 billion, or approximately 37% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment and sundry assets totaled approximately $718 million, or approximately 22% of total assets. we review our ten reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in june as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. the annual goodwill impairment review performed in june 2012 indicated no goodwill impairments, but fair market value for one of our ten reporting units (store fixtures) only exceeded book value by approximately 10%. the fair market values of all other reporting units exceeded book value by more than 35%. the goodwill associated with the store fixtures reporting unit was $111 million at december 31, 2012. the unit is dependent upon capital spending by retailers on both new stores and remodeling of existing stores. although recent performance has met expectations, the predictability of future results is less certain than that of our other reporting units due to the project nature of this business. if we are not able to maintain current performance levels, future impairments could be possible. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which could negatively impact our earnings. we are exposed to foreign currency risk which may negatively impact our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2012, 27% of our sales were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. 17 table of contents part i technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. we receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of, and collections from, our customers, and manage the accounting for, and payment to, our vendors. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. if these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. new conflict minerals regulations may adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of conflict minerals or components which contain conflict minerals, and may result in loss of sales, additional expenses and reduced profitability. on august 22, 2012, as mandated by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sec adopted new disclosure regulations for public companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold, known as conflict minerals, if these minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of the company's products. these regulations require such issuers to report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of conflict minerals used in the manufacture of certain electronic components, including those assembled into our products. in addition, we may incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we implement may not enable us to ascertain the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are drc conflict-free, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as drc conflict-free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and lead to a loss of sales. these new requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. deteriorating financial condition of our customers could negatively affect our sales, earnings, cash flows and liquidity. we serve customers in a variety of industries, some of which have and are continuing to experience low levels of demand. a sustained economic downturn increases the possibility that one or more of our significant customers, or a group of less significant customers, could become insolvent, which could adversely impact our sales, earnings, cash flow and liquidity. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. economic uncertainty or tax law changes could change our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. 18 table of contents part i quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company's debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its $1,030 carrying value by $45.7 at december 31, 2012, and greater than its $730 carrying value by $29.2 at december 31, 2011. the increase in the fair market value of the company's debt is primarily due to the issuance of $300 of new notes in 2012, and the decrease in credit spreads as compared to the prior year end. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2012 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company's interest costs for its medium-term notes. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter 2012 2011 principal fixed rate debt $ 200.0 $ 180.0 $ 200.0 $ $ $ 450.0 $ 1,030.0 $ 730.0 average interest rate 1 4.70 % 4.65 % 5.00 % 3.73 % 4.33 % 4.71 % principal variable rate debt 2.3 17.6 19.9 20.4 average interest rate .36 % .33 % .34 % .30 % miscellaneous debt 2 5.5 85.4 total debt 1,055.4 835.8 less: current maturities (201.5 ) (2.5 ) total long-term debt $ 853.9 $ 833.3 _______________________________________________________________________________ 1. these rates exclude the amortization of interest rate swap. 2. includes $0 and $70.4 of commercial paper in 2012 and 2011, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2016. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company's policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges and fair value hedges is provided in note on page 105 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company's net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries at december 31 is as follows: 56 table of contents part ii functional currency 2012 2011 european currencies $ 326.7 $ 298.4 chinese renminbi 270.5 249.9 canadian dollar 252.1 217.9 mexican peso 37.7 31.1 other 58.6 61.9 total $ 945.6 $ 859.2risk factors 17 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products which may negatively impact our sales, operating cash flow and earnings. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our components and products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one-third of our sales. demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, a depressed housing market, or low consumer confidence could contribute to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. many consumers continue to postpone spending on larger ticket items such as bedding and furniture. if economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. costs of raw materials could negatively affect our profit margins and earnings. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs generally move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices combined with higher cost inventory can reduce our segment margins and earnings. steel is our principal raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. in late 2013, steel costs increased unexpectedly, and the timing of the increase (late in the year) resulted in a concentration of lifo expense in the fourth quarter. we are implementing price increases in early 2014 to recover these higher costs. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of fabrics and foam scrap. we experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of these commodities in recent years. as a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). in the later half of 2013, metal margins within our rod production operation were compressed due to downward pressure on steel rod prices from chinese imports. also, if scrap costs 17 table of contents part i raise more rapidly than the price of steel rod, the metal margins will be compressed. in either instance, compressed metal margins could negatively impact our result of operations. higher raw material costs in recent years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this primarily impacted our residential furnishings and industrial materials product mix and decreased profit margins. this trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. competition could adversely affect our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia and europe. in addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. they may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed by foreign competitors. premium non-innerspring mattresses (those that have either a foam or air core) have experienced rapid growth in the u.s. bedding market in recent years. while still a relatively small portion of the total market in units (approximately 10%-12%), these products represent a much larger portion of the total market in dollars (approximately 25%-30%) due to their higher average selling prices. if sales of foam or air core mattresses continue to grow appreciably, it could reduce our market share in the u.s. bedding market, and negatively impact our sales and earnings. the revocation of duties on imports of innersprings from china, south africa and vietnam could reduce our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings. for the past five years, there have been antidumping duty orders on innerspring imports from china, south africa and vietnam, ranging from 116% to 234%. the orders remain in effect while t he department of commerce (doc) and the international trade commission (itc) conduct separate reviews to determine whether to extend the duties through early 2019 (for china) and late 2018 (for south africa and vietnam). if it is determined that the revocation of the duties would likely lead to the continuation or recurrence of dumping of innersprings (determined by the doc) and material injury to the u.s. innerspring industry (determined by the itc), the duties will be extended. we believe that, without the extension, it is likely that dumping will recur and the u.s. innerspring industry will be materially injured. as a result, we are actively participating in the doc and itc reviews. we expect the doc and itc to issue their respective determinations in march 2014. if the doc and itc revoke the duties it could reduce our share in the innersprings market, our sales, profit margins and earnings. our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2013, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1.1 billion, or approximately 36% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment and sundry assets totaled approximately $696 million, or approximately 22% of total assets. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset valuation calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which could negatively impact our earnings. we review our ten reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in june as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance 18 table of contents part i indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. the annual goodwill impairment review performed in june 2013 indicated no goodwill impairments, but fair market value for one of our ten reporting units (store fixtures) exceeded book value by approximately 18%. the goodwill associated with the store fixtures reporting unit was approximately $109 million at december 31, 2013. the unit is dependent upon capital spending by retailers on both new stores and remodeling of existing stores. although 2012 performance was better than expected, 2013 fell short of expectations. the predictability of future results is less certain than that of our other reporting units due to the project nature of this business. if we are not able to achieve projected performance levels in store fixtures, future impairments could be possible, which would negatively impact our earnings. we had been reviewing the commercial vehicle products (cvp) group, which is part of the specialized products segment, as part of our ongoing strategic planning process with one possible strategic alternative being to divest all or part of the group. during this process, an unexpected decline in cvp group sales, earnings and operating cash flows occurred. consequently, we received a lower than previously expected indication of value relating to the potential disposition of the business. as a result, we conducted an interim valuation of the cvp group goodwill and other long-lived assets and, in december, concluded that an impairment charge was required primarily relating to goodwill of the cvp group. we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $63 million in the fourth quarter. a further decline in the cvp group business could result in future impairments which would negatively impact our earnings. we are exposed to foreign currency risk which may negatively impact our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2013, 28% of our sales were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. we receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of, and collections from, our customers, and manage the accounting for, and payment to, our vendors. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. if these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. economic uncertainty or tax law changes could impact our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. 19 table of contents part i we are exposed to legal contingencies related to various lawsuits and other claims that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our earnings and cash flows. we are a defendant in various legal proceedings, including antitrust lawsuits related to the alleged price fixing of prime foam and carpet underlay products, and other proceedings and claims. when it is probable, in management's judgment, that we may incur monetary damages or other costs resulting from these proceedings or other claims, and we can reasonably estimate the amounts, we record appropriate liabilities in the financial statements and make charges against earnings. if our assumptions or analysis regarding these contingencies is incorrect, we could incur damages which could have a material negative impact on our earnings and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company's debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its $830 carrying value by $3.2 at december 31, 2013, and greater than its $1,030 carrying value by $45.7 at december 31, 2012. the decrease in the fair market value of the company's debt is primarily due to the maturity of $200 of notes in 2013, the increase in credit spreads as compared to the prior year end, increased interest rates, and the timing of interest payments. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2013 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company's interest costs for its medium-term notes. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter 2013 2012 principal fixed rate debt $ 180.0 $ 200.0 $ $ $ 150.0 $ 300.0 $ 830.0 $ 1,030.0 average interest rate 1 4.65 % 5.00 % 4.40 % 3.40 % 4.24 % 4.33 % principal variable rate debt 2.3 2.3 2.4 12.9 19.9 19.9 average interest rate .31 % .22 % .22 % .23 % .24 % .34 % miscellaneous debt 2 19.6 5.5 total debt 869.5 1,055.4 less: current maturities (181.1 ) (201.5 ) total long-term debt $ 688.4 $ 853.9 _______________________________________________________________________________ 1. these rates exclude the amortization of interest rate swap. 2. includes $16 and $0 of commercial paper in 2013 and 2012, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2017. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company's policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges and fair value hedges is provided in note on page 110 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company's net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries at december 31 is as follows: 59 table of contents part ii functional currency 2013 2012 european currencies $ 374.2 $ 326.7 chinese renminbi 257.6 270.5 canadian dollar 240.2 252.1 mexican peso 34.6 37.7 other 51.1 58.6 total $ 957.7 $ 945.6risk factors 15 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. costs of raw materials could negatively affect our profit margins and earnings. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw 15 table of contents part i material costs generally move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices combined with higher cost inventory can reduce our segment margins and earnings. steel is our principal raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of fabrics and foam scrap. we experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of these commodities in recent years. as a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference between the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). if market conditions cause scrap costs and rod pricing to change at different rates (both in terms of timing and amount), metal margins could be compressed and this would negatively impact our results of operations. higher raw material costs in past years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this primarily impacted our residential furnishings and industrial materials product mix and decreased profit margins. if this was to occur again it could negatively impact our results of operations. competition could adversely affect our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia and europe. in addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. they may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed by foreign competitors. we are exposed to contingencies related to certain foam antitrust proceedings that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we previously disclosed that we are a party to a series of civil antitrust lawsuits involving the sale of polyurethane foam products. we have reached a tentative settlement in the u.s. direct purchaser class action cases by agreeing to pay an aggregate pre-tax amount of $39.8 million, inclusive of plaintiff attorneys' fees and costs. we paid $4.0 million of this amount in the fourth quarter of 2014. we continue to deny all allegations in all of the cases, but have settled the direct purchaser class proceedings (and various other proceedings) to avoid the risk, uncertainty, expense and distraction of litigation. the settlement is subject to court approval. we remain a defendant in other previously disclosed antitrust cases involving the sale of polyurethane foam. we will vigorously defend ourselves and believe that we have valid bases to contest all claims. however, we have established an incremental accrual for the estimated amount that we believe is necessary to resolve all antitrust matters. we also believe and expect, based on current facts and circumstances, that any reasonably possible loss incremental to the recorded accruals will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. provided, however, if our assumptions or analysis regarding these contingencies is incorrect, or if facts and circumstances change, we could realize loss in excess of the recorded accruals which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more 16 table of contents part i information regarding our legal contingencies, see footnote t contingencies on page 113 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we are exposed to foreign currency risk which may negatively impact our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2014, 31% of our sales were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2014, goodwill and other intangible assets represented $1.02 billion, or 33% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment and sundry assets totaled $687.3 million, or 22% of total assets. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset valuation calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which could negatively impact our earnings. we review our reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in june as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. if we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments could be possible, which would negatively impact our earnings. technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. we receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of, and collections from, our customers, and manage the accounting for, and payment to, our vendors. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. if these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. economic uncertainty or tax law changes could impact our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. 17 table of contents part i we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products which may negatively impact our sales, operating cash flow and earnings. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our components and products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one-quarter of our sales. demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, low consumer confidence, or a depressed housing market could contribute to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. if economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. ( unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company's debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was not materially different than its $950 carrying value at december 31, 2014, and less than its $830 carrying value by $3.2 at december 31, 2013. the increase in the fair market value of the company's debt is primarily due to the issuance of $300 of notes in 2014 (offset by $180 note maturing), the increase in credit spreads as compared to the prior year end, increased interest rates, and the timing of interest payments. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2014 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company's interest costs for its medium-term notes. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter 2014 2013 principal fixed rate debt $ 200.0 $ $ $ 150.0 $ $ 600.0 $ 950.0 $ 830.0 average interest rate 1 5.00 % 4.40 % 3.60 % 4.02 % 4.24 % principal variable rate debt 2.3 2.3 2.4 7.8 14.7 19.9 average interest rate .22 % .17 % .17 % .17 % .18 % .24 % miscellaneous debt 2 3.7 19.6 total debt 968.4 869.5 less: current maturities (201.7 ) (181.1 ) total long-term debt $ 766.7 $ 688.4 _______________________________________________________________________________ 1. these rates exclude the amortization of interest rate swap. 2. includes $0 and $16 of commercial paper in 2014 and 2013, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2019. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company's policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges and fair value hedges is provided in note on page 111 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company's net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries at december 31 is as follows: 59 table of contents part ii functional currency 2014 2013 european currencies $ 329.4 $ 374.2 chinese renminbi 286.6 257.6 canadian dollar 192.7 240.2 mexican peso 29.2 34.6 other 55.8 51.1 total $ 893.7 $ 957.7risk factors 16 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. costs of raw materials could negatively affect our profit margins and earnings. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs generally move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices combined with higher cost inventory can reduce our segment margins and earnings. steel is our principal raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of fabrics and foam scrap. we experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of these commodities in recent years. 16 table of contents part i as a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference between the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). if market conditions cause scrap costs and rod pricing to change at different rates (both in terms of timing and amount), metal margins could be compressed and this would negatively impact our results of operations. higher raw material costs in past years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this primarily impacted our residential furnishings and industrial materials product mix and decreased profit margins. if this was to occur again it could negatively impact our results of operations. competition could adversely affect our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality and performance. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia and europe. in addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. they may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed by foreign competitors. we are exposed to litigation contingencies that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we previously disclosed that we were a party to a series of civil antitrust lawsuits involving the sale of polyurethane foam products. during 2015, we settled the substantial majority of these cases but there are a few cases yet to be resolved. although we deny liability in all threatened or pending litigation proceedings and believe that we have valid bases to contest all claims made against us, we have, at december 31, 2015, an aggregate litigation contingency accrual of $8 million. the accrual amount decreased from the prior year primarily due to cash payments for litigation settlements of $82 million. based on current facts and circumstances, aggregate reasonably possible (but not probable) losses in excess of the recorded accruals for litigation contingencies (which include brazilian vat, antitrust, patent, and other matters) are estimated to be $25 million. if our assumptions or analysis regarding these contingencies is incorrect, or if facts and circumstances change, we could realize loss in excess of the recorded accruals (and in excess of the $25 million referenced above) which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information regarding our legal contingencies, see note t on page 114 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we are exposed to foreign currency risk which may negatively impact our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2015, 31% of our sales were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. 17 table of contents part i our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2015, goodwill and other intangible assets represented $998 million, or 34% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment and sundry assets totaled $658 million, or 22% of total assets. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset valuation calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which could negatively impact our earnings. we review our reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in june as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. if we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments could be possible, which would negatively impact our earnings. for more information regarding potential goodwill and other long-lived asset impairment, refer to note c on page 79 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. we receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of, and collections from, our customers, and manage the accounting for, and payment to, our vendors. we expect to transition certain corporate-level shared service systems primarily related to our domestic u.s. operations for general ledger, sales invoicing, cash application, purchasing and accounts payable disbursements to a new platform during the last half of 2016 and the first half of 2017. technology failures or security breaches of a new or existing infrastructure could create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. if these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. economic uncertainty or tax law changes could impact our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products which may negatively impact our sales, operating cash flow and earnings. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our components and products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one-quarter of our sales. 18 table of contents part i demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, low consumer confidence, or a depressed housing market could contribute to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. if economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. ( unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company's debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was not materially different than its $950 carrying value at december 31, 2014, and greater than its $750 carrying value by $13.4 at december 31, 2015. the increase in the fair market value of the company's debt is primarily due to the maturity and repayment of $200 of notes in 2015, the increase in credit spreads as compared to the prior year end, increased interest rates, and the timing of interest payments. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2015 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company's interest costs for its medium-term notes. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter 2015 2014 principal fixed rate debt $ $ $ 150.0 $ $ $ 600.0 $ 750.0 $ 950.0 average interest rate 1 4.40 % 3.60 % 3.76 % 4.02 % principal variable rate debt 2.3 2.3 2.4 7.7 14.7 14.7 average interest rate .24 % .35 % .35 % .35 % .33 % .18 % miscellaneous debt 2 184.1 3.7 total debt 948.8 968.4 less: current maturities (3.4 ) (201.7 ) total long-term debt $ 945.4 $ 766.7 _______________________________________________________________________________ 1. these rates exclude the amortization of interest rate swap. 2. includes $181 and $0 of commercial paper in 2015 and 2014, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2019. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company's policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges and fair value hedges is provided in note beginning on page 111 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company's net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries at december 31 is as follows: 57 table of contents part ii functional currency 2015 2014 european currencies $ 296.9 $ 329.4 chinese renminbi 281.9 286.6 canadian dollar 155.6 192.7 mexican peso 26.2 29.2 other 52.1 55.8 total $ 812.7 $ 893.7risk factors 19 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. costs of raw materials could negatively affect our profit margins and earnings. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs generally move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices combined with higher cost inventory can reduce our segment margins and earnings. 19 table of contents part i steel is our principal raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of fabrics and foam scrap. we experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of these commodities in past years. as a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference between the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). if market conditions cause scrap costs and rod pricing to change at different rates (both in terms of timing and amount), metal margins could be compressed and this would negatively impact our results of operations. higher raw material costs in past years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this primarily impacted our residential furnishings product mix and decreased profit margins. if this was to occur again it could negatively impact our results of operations. competition could adversely affect our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality and performance. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia and europe. in addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. they may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed by foreign competitors. we are exposed to litigation contingencies that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we deny liability in all currently threatened or pending litigation proceedings and believe that we have valid bases to contest all claims made against us, we have, at december 31, 2016, an aggregate litigation contingency accrual of $3 million. based on current facts and circumstances, aggregate reasonably possible (but not probable) losses in excess of the recorded accruals for litigation contingencies (which include brazilian vat and other matters) are estimated to be $26 million. if our assumptions or analysis regarding these contingencies is incorrect, or if facts and circumstances change, we could realize loss in excess of the recorded accruals (and in excess of the $26 million referenced above) which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information regarding our legal contingencies, see note on page 115 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we are exposed to foreign currency risk which may negatively impact our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2016, 34% of our sales were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. 20 table of contents part i our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2016, goodwill and other intangible assets represented $956 million, or 32% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment and sundry assets totaled $703 million, or 24% of total assets. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset valuation calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which could negatively impact our earnings. we review our reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in june as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. if we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments could be possible, which would negatively impact our earnings. for more information regarding potential goodwill and other long-lived asset impairment, refer to note c on page 83 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. we receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of and collections from our customers, and manage the accounting for and payment to our vendors. we have transitioned certain corporate-level shared service systems primarily related to our u.s. operations for general ledger, cash application, purchasing and accounts payable disbursements to a new platform during the first quarter of 2017. technology failures or security breaches of a new or existing infrastructure could create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. if these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. economic uncertainty or tax law changes could impact our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products which may negatively impact our sales, operating cash flow and earnings. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our components and products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one-quarter of our sales. 21 table of contents part i demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, low consumer confidence, or a depressed housing market could contribute to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. if economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. we are exposed to political, regulatory, and legislative risks that may arise from actions by u.s. or foreign governments that could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2016, 34% of our sales were generated by international operations. further, many of our businesses obtain products, components and raw materials from global suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, and legislative risks inherent in operating in numerous countries. these regulations and laws are complex and may change. if the u.s. or foreign governments adopt or change regulations, this could negatively impact our results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. changes in tax laws or challenges to our tax positions could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are subject to the tax laws and reporting rules of the u.s. (federal, state and local) and several foreign jurisdictions. current economic and political conditions make these tax rules (and governmental interpretation of these rules) in any jurisdiction, including the u.s., subject to significant change and uncertainty. there have been proposals, most notably by the organization for economic cooperation and development, the european union, the u.s., and canada, to reform tax laws or change interpretations of existing tax rules. some of these proposals, if adopted, could significantly impact how multinational corporations are taxed on their earnings and transactions. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will become law, or how they might be interpreted, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. ( unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company's debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its $750 carrying value by $25.2 at december 31, 2016, and greater than its $750 carrying value by $13.4 at december 31, 2015. the increase in the fair market value of the company's debt is primarily due to the increase in credit spreads as compared to the prior year end, increased interest rates, and the timing of interest payments. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2016 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company's interest costs for its medium-term notes. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter 2016 2015 principal fixed rate debt $ $ 150.0 $ $ $ $ 600.0 $ 750.0 $ 750.0 average interest rate 1 4.40 % 3.60 % 3.76 % 3.76 % principal variable rate debt 2.3 2.4 7.7 12.4 14.7 average interest rate .63 % 1.12 % 1.12 % .33 % .33 % miscellaneous debt 2 197.4 180.2 total debt 959.8 944.9 less: current maturities (3.6 ) (3.4 ) total long-term debt $ 956.2 $ 941.5 1. these rates exclude the amortization of interest rate swap. 2. includes $200 and $181 of commercial paper in 2016 and 2015, respectively, supported by a $750 revolving credit facility which terminates in 2021. the weighted average interest rate on the balance of commercial paper outstanding at the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 was 1.0% and .5%, respectively. the weighted average interest rate for the net commercial paper activity during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 was .8% and .5%, respectively. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates and foreign currency. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company's policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges and fair value hedges is provided in note r beginning on page 112 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment and does not hedge translation exposures. this investment may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company's net 60 table of contents part ii investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2016 2015 european currencies $ 292.6 $ 296.9 chinese renminbi 294.6 281.9 canadian dollar 185.6 155.6 mexican peso 23.7 26.2 other 48.1 52.1 total $ 844.6 $ 812.7risk factors 16 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. costs of raw materials could negatively affect our profit margins and earnings. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs generally move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass 16 table of contents part i through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices combined with higher cost inventory can reduce our segment margins and earnings. steel is our principal raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of fabrics and foam scrap. we experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of these commodities in past years. as a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference between the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). if market conditions cause scrap costs and rod pricing to change at different rates (both in terms of timing and amount), metal margins could be compressed and this would negatively impact our results of operations. higher raw material costs in past years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this primarily impacted our residential products product mix and decreased profit margins. if this were to occur again it could negatively impact our results of operations. competition could adversely affect our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality and performance. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia and europe. in addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. they may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed by foreign competitors. we are exposed to litigation contingencies that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we deny liability in all currently threatened or pending litigation proceedings and believe that we have valid bases to contest all claims made against us, we have, at december 31, 2017, an aggregate litigation contingency accrual of $.4 million. based on current facts and circumstances, aggregate reasonably possible (but not probable) losses in excess of the recorded accruals for litigation contingencies (which include brazilian vat and other matters) are estimated to be $22 million. if our assumptions or analysis regarding these contingencies is incorrect, or if facts and circumstances change, we could realize loss in excess of the recorded accruals (and in excess of the $22 million referenced above) which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information regarding our legal contingencies, please see note on page 115 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we are exposed to foreign currency risk which may negatively impact our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2017, 37% of our sales were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. 17 table of contents part i our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2017, goodwill and other intangible assets represented $991 million, or 28% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment and sundry assets totaled $793 million, or 22% of total assets. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset valuation calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which would negatively impact our earnings. we review our reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in june as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. if we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments could be possible, which would negatively impact our earnings. for more information regarding potential goodwill and other long-lived asset impairment, please refer to note c on page 79 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. we receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of and collections from our customers, and manage the accounting for and payment to our vendors. we transitioned certain corporate-level shared service systems primarily related to our u.s. operations for general ledger, cash application, purchasing and accounts payable disbursements to a new platform during the first quarter of 2017. technology failures or security breaches of a new or existing infrastructure could create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. if these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. economic uncertainty or a reduction in the amount of taxable income or a change in the source of taxable income could impact our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products which may negatively impact our sales, operating cash flows and earnings. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and 18 table of contents part i drive demand for our components and products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, low consumer confidence, or a depressed housing market could contribute to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. if economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. we are exposed to political, regulatory, and legislative risks that may arise from actions by u.s. or foreign governments that could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2017, 37% of our sales were generated by international operations. further, many of our businesses obtain products, components and raw materials from global suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, and legislative risks inherent in operating in numerous countries. these regulations and laws are complex and may change. if the u.s. or foreign governments adopt or change regulations, this could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. changes in tax laws or challenges to our tax positions could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are subject to the tax laws and reporting rules of the u.s. (federal, state and local) and several foreign jurisdictions. current economic and political conditions make these tax rules (and governmental interpretation of these rules) in any jurisdiction, including the u.s., subject to significant change and uncertainty. there have been proposals, most notably by the organization for economic cooperation and development, the european union, the u.s., and canada, to reform tax laws or change interpretations of existing tax rules. some of these proposals, if adopted, could significantly impact how multinational corporations are taxed on their earnings and transactions. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will become law, or how they might be interpreted, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (tcja), resulting in significant changes to u.s. federal income tax law, including the reduction of the statutory federal income tax rate for corporations and the transition from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system. we are continuing to assess the extensive changes under this legislation and its overall impact on the company. based on our current understanding, we expect tcja to reduce our tax rate in future periods. however, this expectation is based on our current knowledge of the legislation and assumptions we have made. recognized impacts could differ materially from current estimates based on additional analysis, changes in our interpretation of certain aspects of the legislation, actual financial results for 2018, additional regulatory guidance that might be issued, and other factors, including actions the company may take as a result of tcja. business disruptions to our steel rod mill, if coupled with an inability to purchase an adequate and/or timely supply of quality steel rod from alternative sources, could have a material negative impact on our residential products and industrial products segments and company results of operations. we purchase steel scrap from third party suppliers. this scrap is converted into steel rod in our mill in sterling, illinois. our steel rod mill has annual output of approximately 500,000 tons, a substantial majority of which is used by our three wire mills. our wire mills convert the steel rod into drawn steel wire. this wire is used in the production of many of our products, including mattress innersprings. 19 table of contents part i a disruption to the operation of, or supply of steel scrap to, our steel rod mill could require us to purchase steel rod from alternative supply sources, subject to market availability. ongoing trade action by domestic rod producers against several foreign suppliers could result in the imposition of additional duties on steel rod imports which could result in reduced market availability and/or higher cost of steel rod. if we experience a disruption to our ability to produce steel rod in our mill, coupled with a reduction of adequate and/or timely supply from alternative market sources of quality steel rod, we could experience a material negative impact on our residential products and industrial products segments and company results of operations. inability to identify and consummate acquisitions at a sufficient rate and at appropriate prices could negatively impact our annual revenue growth rate. our long-term 6-9% annual revenue growth objective envisions periodic acquisitions. we expect to continue our strategy of seeking acquisitions that have a clear strategic rationale, a sustainable competitive advantage, a strong fit with the company, are in a growing market, and create value by enhancing total shareholder return. our ability to grow revenues at 6-9% depends, in part, upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire these businesses at appropriate prices. because of competition among prospective buyers which often leads to higher valuations, the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions or obtain antitrust and other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms, and accounting, regulatory and tax requirements, we may not be able to identify or consummate these acquisitions at a sufficient rate, which could adversely impact our annual revenue growth rate. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. ( unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company's debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was not materially different from its carrying value at both december 31, 2017 and 2016. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2017 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company's interest costs for its notes. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter 2017 2016 principal fixed rate debt $ 150.0 $ $ $ $ 300.0 $ 800.0 $ 1,250.0 $ 750.0 average interest rate 1 4.40 % 3.40 % 3.61 % 3.66 % 3.76 % principal variable rate debt 2.4 3.8 6.2 12.4 average interest rate 1.30 % 1.22 % 1.25 % .33 % unamortized discounts and deferred loan costs (10.9 ) (4.7 ) commercial paper 2 196.0 miscellaneous debt 3 6.4 6.1 total debt 1,251.7 959.8 less: current maturities (153.8 ) (3.6 ) total long-term debt $ 1,097.9 $ 956.2 1 these rates exclude the amortization of interest rate swap. 2 commercial paper is supported by an $800 revolving credit facility which terminates in 2022. the weighted average interest rate on the balance of commercial paper outstanding at the year ended december 31, 2016 was 1.0%. the weighted average interest rate for the average commercial paper outstanding during the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 was 1.4% and .8%, respectively. 3 miscellaneous debt consists primarily of capitalized leases. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates and foreign currency. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company's policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges and fair value hedges is provided in note r beginning on page 112 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. 56 table of contents part ii investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment and does not hedge translation exposures. this investment may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company's net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar at december 31 is as follows: functional currency (amounts in millions) 2017 2016 chinese renminbi $ 381.1 $ 294.6 european currencies 364.3 292.6 canadian dollar 260.0 185.6 mexican peso 29.1 23.7 other 50.4 48.1 total $ 1,084.9 $ 844.6risk factors 17 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. inability to timely integrate and fully realize the benefit of the elite comfort solutions, inc. acquisition could negatively impact our ability to achieve our anticipated cash flows, results of operations, earnings per share, and stock price. the company completed the acquisition of elite comfort solutions, inc. (ecs) for a cash purchase price of approximately $1.25 billion on january 16, 2019. however, we may not be able to successfully integrate the ecs businesses. the financial performance of ecs and the combined company following completion of the transaction may not meet expectations due to a variety of factors, some of which may be outside of our control. the integration may divert management's resources and attention from running our other businesses, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including as a result of delay in integrating ecs. moreover, we may experience difficulties and delays in achieving revenue synergies associated with the transaction, or we may not achieve these synergies at all. furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the ecs business. finally, we may have difficulties in retaining key personnel and maintaining relationships with customers and suppliers of ecs. our inability to successfully and timely integrate the ecs businesses could negatively impact our cash flows, results of operations, earnings per share, and stock price. our credit agreement contains covenants that may limit our operational flexibility. furthermore, if we default on our obligations under the credit agreement, our operations may be interrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we entered into the third amended and restated credit agreement among us, jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., as administrative agent ( jpmorgan ) and twelve other lenders in our bank group (the credit agreement ). the credit agreement is a five-year multi-currency credit facility providing us the ability, from time to time subject to certain customary conditions, to borrow, repay and re-borrow up to $1.2 billion. the credit agreement also provides for a one-time draw of up to $500 million under a five-year term loan facility, which we fully borrowed on january 16, 2019 to consummate the ecs acquisition. the credit agreement acts as support for the marketability of our commercial paper program, under which we had $898 million outstanding on january 16, 2019, the ecs acquisition closing date. the credit agreement contains certain covenants, including a covenant that requires us to maintain, as of the last day of each quarter beginning march 31, 2019, a leverage ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated ebitda (each as defined in the credit agreement) for the trailing four fiscal quarters of not greater than 4.25 to 1.00, with a single step-down on march 31, 2020 and thereafter, to 3.50 to 1.00. this covenant may restrict our current and future operations, including (i) our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our businesses and industries; and (ii) our ability to use our cash flows, or obtain additional financing, for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. also, if we fail to comply with the covenants specified in the credit agreement, we may trigger an event of default, in which case the lenders would have the right to: (i) terminate their commitment to provide additional loans under the credit agreement, and (ii) declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. if the debt under the credit agreement were to be accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash to repay this debt, which would have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. costs of raw materials could negatively affect our profit margins and earnings. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs generally move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices combined with higher cost inventory can reduce our segment margins and earnings. 17 table of contents part i steel is our principal raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of chemicals (including tdi, mdi, and polyol), fabrics and foam scrap, which may be subject to significant fluctuation and may negatively impact our profit margins and earnings. as a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference between the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). if market conditions cause scrap costs and rod pricing to change at different rates (both in terms of timing and amount), metal margins could be compressed and this would negatively impact our results of operations. higher raw material costs could lead some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods and replacing higher cost components with lower cost components. if this were to occur, it could negatively impact our results of operations. competition could adversely affect our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality and performance. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia and europe. in addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. they may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share, sales, profit margins and earnings could be harmed by foreign competitors. interruption in our customers' businesses due to bankruptcy, financial difficulties or insolvency could result in their inability to pay their debts to us, and could adversely affect our sales, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. bankruptcy, financial difficulties or insolvency can and has occurred with some of our customers which can impact their ability to pay their debts to us. we have extended trade credit to some of these customers in a material amount, particularly in our bedding and consumer products groups. our bad debt reserve contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables based upon the financial health and payment history of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical loss experience. some retailers that carry our products or our customers' products may undergo restructurings or reorganizations because of financial difficulty. also, certain of our customers have filed bankruptcy, and others, from time to time, have become insolvent and/or do not have the ability to pay their debts to us as they come due. if our customers suffer significant financial difficulty, they may be unable to pay their debts to us, they may reject their contractual obligations to us under bankruptcy laws or otherwise, or we may have to negotiate significant discounts and/or extend financing terms with these customers. any of these risks, if realized, could adversely affect our sales and increase our operating expenses by requiring larger provisions for bad debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. tariffs by the united states government could result in increased costs of imports and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in 2018, the united states imposed broad-ranging tariffs of 25% on imports of steel products and 10% on imports of aluminum products. the administration has also imposed tariffs on a broad variety of products imported from china. additional tariffs may be imposed, or current tariffs increased, in the future. any tariffs that result in increased costs of imported products and materials could require us to increase prices to our domestic customers or, if we are unable to do so, result in lowering our gross margins on products sold. as a result, the tariffs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are exposed to litigation contingencies that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we deny liability in all currently threatened or pending litigation proceedings and believe that we have valid bases to contest all claims made against us, we have, at december 31, 2018 , an aggregate litigation contingency 18 table of contents part i accrual of $2 million . based on current facts and circumstances, aggregate reasonably possible (but not probable) losses in excess of the recorded accruals for litigation contingencies (which include brazilian value-added tax and other matters) are estimated to be $17 million. if our assumptions or analysis regarding these contingencies is incorrect, or if facts and circumstances change, we could realize loss in excess of the recorded accruals (and in excess of the $17 million referenced above) which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information regarding our legal contingencies, please see note u on page 119 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we are exposed to foreign currency risk which may negatively impact our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2018 , 37% of our sales were generated by international operations. certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2018 , goodwill and other intangible assets represented $1.01 billion, or 30% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment and sundry assets totaled $845 million, or 25% of total assets. after completing the ecs acquisition in january 2019, as discussed in note v on page 121 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, our goodwill and other long-lived asset balances are expected to increase. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset valuation calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which would negatively impact our earnings. we review our reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in the second quarter as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. if we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments could be possible, which would negatively impact our earnings. for more information regarding potential goodwill and other long-lived asset impairment, please refer to note d on page 82 and note v on page 121 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. we receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of and collections from our customers, and manage the accounting for and payment to our vendors. technology failures or security breaches of a new or existing infrastructure could create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. if these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. economic uncertainty or a reduction in the amount of taxable income or a change in the source of taxable income could impact our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. 19 table of contents part i we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products which may negatively impact our sales, operating cash flows and earnings. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our components and products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, low consumer confidence, or a depressed housing market could contribute to reduced spending by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. if economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our sales, operating cash flows and earnings. changes in tax laws or challenges to our tax positions could negatively impact our earnings and cash flows. we are subject to the tax laws and reporting rules of the u.s. (federal, state and local) and several foreign jurisdictions. current economic and political conditions make these tax rules (and governmental interpretation of these rules) in any jurisdiction, including the u.s., subject to significant change and uncertainty. there have been proposals, most notably by the organization for economic cooperation and development and the european union to reform tax laws or change interpretations of existing tax rules. some of these proposals, if adopted, could significantly impact how multinational corporations are taxed on their earnings and transactions. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will become law, or how they might be interpreted, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (tcja), resulting in significant changes to u.s. federal income tax law, including the reduction of the statutory federal income tax rate for corporations and the transition from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial system. although we expect tcja will reduce our tax rate in future periods, this expectation is based on our current understanding of the legislation, the subsequent guidance which has been issued, and assumptions we have made. recognized impacts could differ materially from current estimates based on additional analysis, any changes to our current interpretation of the legislation, actual financial results, additional regulatory guidance that might be issued, and other factors, including actions the company may take as a result of tcja. business disruptions to our steel rod mill, if coupled with an inability to purchase an adequate and/or timely supply of quality steel rod from alternative sources, could have a material negative impact on our residential products and industrial products segments and company results of operations. we purchase steel scrap from third party suppliers. this scrap is converted into steel rod in our mill in sterling, illinois. our steel rod mill has annual output of approximately 500,000 tons, a substantial majority of which is used by our three wire mills. our wire mills convert the steel rod into drawn steel wire. this wire is used in the production of many of our products, including mattress innersprings. a disruption to the operation of, or supply of steel scrap to, our steel rod mill could require us to purchase steel rod from alternative supply sources, subject to market availability. ongoing trade action by the administration, along with the existence of antidumping and countervailing duty orders against multiple countries, could result in reduced market availability and/or higher cost of steel rod. if we experience a disruption to our ability to produce steel rod in our mill, coupled with a reduction of adequate and/or timely supply from alternative market sources of quality steel rod, we could experience a material negative impact on our residential products and industrial products segments and the company's results of operations. 20 table of contents part i our borrowing costs and access to liquidity may be impacted by our credit ratings. independent rating agencies evaluate our credit profile on an ongoing basis and have assigned ratings for our short-term and long-term debt. with the debt financing of the ecs acquisition, one rating agency lowered our long-term debt credit rating by one notch. this agency, along with one other, also placed our long-term debt rating on negative outlook. if our credit ratings further decline, our borrowing costs could increase, including increased costs under our commercial paper program, costs and fees under our credit facility, and our access to future sources of liquidity may be adversely affected. we are exposed to risks associated with operating in foreign countries that could result in cost increases, reduced profits, the inability to carry on certain foreign operations and may negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2018 , 37% of our sales were generated by international operations. further, many of our businesses obtain products, components and raw materials from global suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, and legislative risks inherent in operating in numerous countries. these laws and regulations are complex and may change. if the foreign governments adopt or change laws or regulations, this could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our international locations also face risks associated with operating in a foreign country. these risks include: credit risks increased costs due to tariffs, customs and shipping rates potential problems obtaining raw materials, and disruptions related to the availability of electricity and transportation during times of crisis or war inconsistent interpretation and enforcement, at times, of foreign tax laws and regulations, and capital requirements political instability in certain countries our specialized products segment, which derives roughly 84% of its trade sales from products manufactured in foreign countries, is particularly subject to the above risks. these and other foreign-related risks could result in cost increases, reduced profits, the inability to carry on certain foreign operations and other adverse effects on our business. the governing trade provisions between the united states, mexico and canada may become less favorable to the company resulting in increased costs, reduced competitiveness and a negative impact on our results of operations. on november 30, 2018, the united states, mexico, and canada signed the united states-mexico-canada agreement (usmca), the intended successor agreement to the north american free trade agreement (nafta). each country must follow its domestic procedures before the agreement can be ratified and thus take effect. to date, the u.s. administration has not formally provided notice of intent to withdraw from the existing nafta, which would start a 6-month clock, pressing congress to either ratify usmca or allow nafta to terminate. there is uncertainty as to (i) whether the united states will withdraw from nafta, (ii) whether the usmca will be ratified, or (iii) if the united states withdraws from nafta, but the usmca is not ratified, what trade provisions will govern the relationships between the countries. if the governing trade provisions between the united states, mexico and canada become less favorable to the company, this could increase our costs, reduce our competitiveness and negatively impact our results of operations. the united kingdom's potential withdrawal from the european union could adversely affect us. in june 2016, the united kingdom (uk) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union (eu), commonly referred to as brexit. the ultimate effect of brexit on us is difficult to predict, but, because we conduct business in the uk and in the eu, the results of the referendum and any withdrawal could cause disruptions and create uncertainty to our businesses, including affecting our relationships with customers and suppliers, altering tariffs and currencies, and fluctuating the value of the british pound and the euro relative to the u.s. dollar. such disruptions and uncertainties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows from operations. 21 table of contents part i quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. ( unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company's debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was approximately $35 million less than carrying value at december 31, 2018 and approximately $14 million greater than carrying value at december 31, 2017 . the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2018 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company's interest costs for its notes. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. long-term debt as of december 31, scheduled maturity date 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter 2018 2017 principal fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ 300.0 $ $ 800.0 $1,100.0 $1,250.0 average stated interest rate 3.40 % 3.61 % 3.55 % 3.66 % principal variable rate debt 3.8 3.8 6.2 average interest rate 1.89 % 1.89 % 1.25 % unamortized discounts and deferred loan costs (10.1 ) (10.9 ) commercial paper 1 70.0 miscellaneous debt, primarily capitalized leases 5.3 6.4 total debt 1,169.0 1,251.7 less: current maturities 1.2 153.8 total long-term debt $1,167.8 $1,097.9 1 the weighted average interest rate on the balance of commercial paper outstanding at the year ended december 31, 2018 was 2.6%. the weighted average interest rate for the average commercial paper outstanding during the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 was 2.4% and 1.4%, respectively. commercial paper is supported by an $800 revolving credit facility which terminates in 2022. in january 2019, we increased the borrowing capacity under the revolving facility from $800 to $1,200, added a five-year $500 term loan facility, and extended the term from 2022 to 2024. after completing the ecs acquisition in january 2019 (discussed in note v to our consolidated financial statements ), our debt levels have increased as expected. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates and foreign currency. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company's policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges and fair value hedges is provided in note t beginning on page 116 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. 57 table of contents investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment and does not hedge translation exposures. this investment may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company's net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar at december 31 is as follows: functional currency (amounts in millions) 2018 2017 european currencies $ 331.5 $ 364.3 chinese renminbi 299.0 381.1 canadian dollar 203.2 260.0 mexican peso 31.3 29.1 other 63.4 50.4 total $ 928.4 $ 1,084.9risk factors 16 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. inability to fully realize the benefit of the ecs acquisition could negatively impact our ability to achieve our anticipated cash flows, results of operations, earnings per share, and stock price. we completed the acquisition of ecs for a cash purchase price of approximately $1.25 billion in january 2019. our combined financial performance may not meet expectations due to a variety of factors, some of which may be outside of our control. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction. moreover, we may experience difficulties and delays in achieving revenue synergies associated with the transaction, or we may not achieve these synergies at all. our inability to successfully and fully realize the benefits of the ecs acquisition could negatively impact our cash flows, results of operations, earnings per share, and stock price. our credit agreement contains covenants that may limit our operational flexibility. furthermore, if we default on our obligations under the credit agreement, our operations may be interrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we entered into the third amended and restated credit agreement among us, jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., as administrative agent ( jpmorgan ) and twelve other lenders in our bank group (the credit agreement ) in 2018. the credit agreement is a five-year multi-currency credit facility providing us the ability, from time to time subject to certain customary conditions, to borrow, repay and re-borrow up to $1.2 billion. the credit agreement also provides for a one-time draw of up to $500 million under a five-year term loan facility, which we fully borrowed in january 2019 to 16 table of contents part i consummate the ecs acquisition. the credit agreement acts as support for the marketability of our commercial paper program. the credit agreement contains certain covenants, including a covenant that requires us to maintain, as of the last day of each quarter beginning march 31, 2019, a leverage ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated ebitda (each as defined in the credit agreement) for the trailing four fiscal quarters of not greater than 4.25 to 1.00, with a single step-down on march 31, 2020 and thereafter, to 3.50 to 1.00. this covenant may restrict our current and future operations, including (i) our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our businesses and industries; and (ii) our ability to use our cash flows, or obtain additional financing, for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. also, if we fail to comply with the covenants specified in the credit agreement, we may trigger an event of default, in which case the lenders would have the right to: (i) terminate their commitment to provide additional loans under the credit agreement, and (ii) declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. additionally, our senior notes contain cross-default covenants, which could make outstanding amounts under the senior notes immediately payable in the event of a material uncured default under the credit agreement. if the debt under the credit agreement or senior notes were to be accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash to repay this debt, which would have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. costs of raw materials could negatively affect our profit margins and earnings. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly, our raw material costs generally move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices combined with higher cost inventory can reduce our profit margins and earnings. steel is our principal raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. with the acquisition of ecs, we now have greater exposure to the cost of chemicals, including tdi, mdi, and polyol. our other raw materials include woven and non-woven fabrics and foam scrap. at times, these chemicals and other raw materials are subject to significant fluctuation and may negatively impact our profit margins and earnings. as a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference between the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). if market conditions cause scrap costs and rod pricing to change at different rates (both in terms of timing and amount), metal margins could be compressed and this would negatively impact our results of operations. higher raw material costs could lead some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods and replacing higher cost components with lower cost components. if this were to occur, it could negatively impact our results of operations. competition could adversely affect our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality and performance. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia and europe. in addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. they may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials (such as steel) at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share, sales, profit margins and earnings could be harmed by foreign competitors. 17 table of contents part i the coronavirus named covid-19, which was first detected in china, could adversely impact our operations' ability to obtain necessary supplies, maintain appropriate labor levels and ship finished products to customers which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flow. governments and health organizations have identified an outbreak of a respiratory illness caused by a new coronavirus which has been named covid-19. the world health organization has declared the outbreak a global public health emergency. it was first detected in wuhan city, hubei province, china, but has spread within china and to multiple other countries. chinese officials have instituted a quarantine for parts of central china. we operate facilities in or near the hubei province, china which are subject to the quarantine. since the outbreak, all of our chinese facilities were temporarily closed for a period of time. most of these facilities have been reopened. depending on the progression of the outbreak, our ability to obtain necessary supplies and ship finished products to customers may be partly or completely disrupted not only in our chinese facilities but globally. also, our ability to maintain appropriate labor levels could be disrupted. if the coronavirus continues to progress, it could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow. our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2019 , goodwill and other intangible assets represented $2.17 billion, or 45% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment, operating lease right-of-use assets, and sundry assets totaled $1.11 billion, or 23% of total assets. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset valuation calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which would negatively impact our earnings. we review our reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in the second quarter as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. the annual goodwill review performed in the second quarter of 2019 indicated no goodwill impairments. however, three of our reporting units had fair value in excess of carrying value of less than 100%, and those units are discussed below. fair value for our machinery reporting unit only exceeded carrying value by approximately 12%. machinery sales have been adversely impacted by rapid market shifts from traditional bedding to compressed mattresses. the goodwill associated with the machinery reporting unit was $33 million at december 31, 2019. fair value for our hydraulic cylinders reporting unit exceeded carrying value by 29%. we acquired this business in the first quarter of 2018, and it has goodwill of $26 million at december 31, 2019. this reporting unit is dependent upon capital spending for material handling equipment, and we have seen market softness in the industries served by this reporting unit. fair value for our bedding reporting unit exceeded carrying value by 50%. our first quarter 2019 $1.25 billion acquisition of ecs is part of our bedding reporting unit, and goodwill for our bedding reporting unit was $723 million at december 31, 2019. if we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments (particularly in our machinery and hydraulic cylinders reporting units) may be possible, which would negatively impact our earnings. for more information regarding potential goodwill and other long-lived asset impairment, please refer to note d on page 81 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. interruption in our customers' businesses due to bankruptcy, financial difficulties or insolvency could result in their inability to pay their debts to us, and could adversely affect our sales, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. bankruptcy, financial difficulties or insolvency can and has occurred with some of our customers which can impact their ability to pay their debts to us. we have extended trade credit to some of these customers in a material amount, particularly in our bedding group. our bad debt reserve contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate 18 table of contents part i the amount of uncollectible receivables based upon the financial health and payment history of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical loss experience. some bedding manufacturers and retailers that use or sell our products or our customers' products may undergo restructurings or reorganizations because of financial difficulty. also, certain of our customers have filed bankruptcy, and others, from time to time, have become insolvent and/or do not have the ability to pay their debts to us as they come due. if our customers suffer significant financial difficulty, they may be unable to pay their debts to us, they may reject their contractual obligations to us under bankruptcy laws or otherwise, or we may have to negotiate significant discounts and/or extend financing terms with these customers. any of these risks, if realized, could adversely affect our sales and increase our operating expenses by requiring larger provisions for bad debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. tariffs by the united states government could result in increased costs of imports and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the united states government has imposed broad-ranging tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum products. the u.s. has also imposed tariffs on a broad variety of products imported from china. additional tariffs may be imposed, or current tariffs increased, in the future. any tariffs that result in increased costs of imported products and materials could require us to increase prices to our domestic customers or, if we are unable to do so, result in lowering our gross margins on products sold. as a result, the tariffs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are exposed to litigation contingencies that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although we deny liability in all currently threatened or pending litigation proceedings and believe that we have valid bases to contest all claims made against us, we have recorded an immaterial aggregate litigation contingency accrual at december 31, 2019 . based on current facts and circumstances, aggregate reasonably possible (but not probable) losses in excess of the recorded accruals for litigation contingencies (which include brazilian value-added tax and other matters) are estimated to be $15 million. if our assumptions or analyses regarding these contingencies are incorrect, or if facts and circumstances change, we could realize loss in excess of the recorded accruals (and in excess of the $15 million referenced above) which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information regarding our legal contingencies, please see note u on page 121 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we are exposed to foreign currency risk which may negatively impact our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2019 , 34% of our sales were generated by international operations. certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than the local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. technology failures or cybersecurity breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. we receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of and collections from our customers, and manage the accounting for and payment to our vendors. technology failures or security breaches of a new or existing infrastructure could create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. also, we may incur remediation costs, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information, litigation and legal costs, reputational damages, damage to our competitiveness, and negative impact on our stock price and long-term shareholder value. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. if these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 table of contents part i we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. economic uncertainty or a reduction in the amount of taxable income or a change in the source of taxable income could impact our underlying assumptions on which valuation allowances are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products which may negatively impact our sales, operating cash flows and earnings. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods and drive demand for our components and products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, low consumer confidence levels, or a depressed housing market could contribute to reduced spending by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. if economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our sales, operating cash flows and earnings. changes in tax laws or challenges to our tax positions could negatively impact our earnings and cash flows. we are subject to the tax laws and reporting rules of the u.s. (federal, state and local) and several foreign jurisdictions. current economic and political conditions make these tax rules (and governmental interpretation of these rules) in any jurisdiction, including the u.s., subject to significant change and uncertainty. there have been recent proposals, most notably by the organization for economic cooperation and development, to reform tax laws or change interpretations of existing tax rules. these proposals, if adopted, could significantly impact how multinational corporations are taxed on their earnings and transactions. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will become law, or how they might be interpreted, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted the tax cuts and jobs act (tcja), which resulted in significant changes to u.s. federal income tax law, including the reduction of the statutory federal income tax rate for corporations and the transition from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial system. the u.s. treasury continues to issue guidance relative to certain key aspects of the tcja and when complete, recognized impacts on the company could differ materially from our current interpretation of the legislation. other factors, including actions the company may take as a result of tcja, could also have a material adverse effect on earnings and cash flows. business disruptions to our steel rod mill, if coupled with an inability to purchase an adequate and/or timely supply of quality steel rod from alternative sources, could have a material negative impact on our residential products and industrial products segments and company results of operations. we purchase steel scrap from third party suppliers. this scrap is converted into steel rod in our mill in sterling, illinois. our steel rod mill has annual output of approximately 500,000 tons, a substantial majority of which is used by our two wire mills. our wire mills convert the steel rod into drawn steel wire. this wire is used in the production of many of our products, including mattress innersprings. a disruption to the operation of, or supply of steel scrap to, our steel rod mill could require us to purchase steel rod from alternative supply sources, subject to market availability. ongoing trade action by the united states government, along with the existence of antidumping and countervailing duty orders against multiple countries, could result in reduced market availability and/or higher cost of steel rod. 20 table of contents part i if we experience a disruption to our ability to produce steel rod in our mill, coupled with a reduction of adequate and/or timely supply from alternative market sources of quality steel rod, we could experience a material negative impact on our residential products and industrial products segments and the company's results of operations. our borrowing costs and access to liquidity may be impacted by our credit ratings. independent rating agencies evaluate our credit profile on an ongoing basis and have assigned ratings for our short-term and long-term debt. with the debt financing of the ecs acquisition, one rating agency lowered our long-term debt credit rating by one notch. another rating agency has placed our long-term debt rating on negative outlook. if our credit ratings further decline, our borrowing costs could increase, including increased costs under our commercial paper program and costs and fees under our credit facility. further, our access to future sources of liquidity may be adversely affected. we are exposed to risks associated with operating in foreign countries that could result in cost increases, reduced profits, the inability to carry on certain foreign operations and may negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in 2019 , 34% of our sales were generated by international operations. further, many of our businesses obtain products, components and raw materials from global suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, and legislative risks inherent in operating in numerous countries. these laws and regulations are complex and may change. if the foreign governments adopt or change laws or regulations, this could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our international locations also face risks associated with operating in a foreign country. these risks include: credit risks increased costs due to tariffs, customs duties and shipping rates potential problems obtaining raw materials, and disruptions related to the availability of electricity and transportation during times of crisis or war inconsistent interpretation and enforcement, at times, of foreign tax laws and regulations, and capital requirements political instability in certain countries our specialized products segment, which derives roughly 82% of its trade sales from products manufactured in foreign countries, is particularly subject to the above risks. these and other foreign-related risks could result in cost increases, reduced profits, the inability to carry on certain foreign operations and other adverse effects on our business. the governing trade provisions between the united states, mexico and canada may become less favorable to the company resulting in increased costs, reduced competitiveness and a negative impact on our results of operations. on november 30, 2018, the united states, mexico, and canada signed the united states-mexico-canada agreement (usmca), the intended successor agreement to the north american free trade agreement (nafta). each country must follow its domestic procedures before the agreement can be ratified and take effect. to date, both the united states and mexico have ratified the agreement, but it is still under consideration by the canadian parliament. there is uncertainty as to (i) whether the united states will withdraw from nafta, (ii) whether the usmca will be fully ratified, or (iii) if the united states withdraws from nafta, but the usmca is not ratified, what trade provisions will govern the relationships between the countries. if the governing trade provisions between the united states, mexico and canada become less favorable to the company, this could increase our costs, reduce our competitiveness and negatively impact our results of operations. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could adversely affect us. in june 2016, the united kingdom (uk) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union (eu), commonly referred to as brexit. in january 2020, the withdrawal agreement act was passed by the uk parliament and the brexit deal was ratified by the eu parliament. this allowed the uk to formally leave the eu on january 31, 2020, with a transition period through december 31, 2020, while the eu and uk negotiate a trade agreement, among other things. because we conduct business in the uk and in the eu, the results of brexit could cause disruptions and create uncertainty to our businesses, including affecting our relationships with customers and suppliers, altering tariffs and currencies, and fluctuating the value of the british pound and the euro relative to the u.s. dollar and other currencies. 21 table of contents part i such disruptions and uncertainties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows from operations. changes affecting the availability of libor may have a negative impact on our results of operations. we have outstanding debt that contains variable interest rates based on libor, which has been subject to regulatory proposals for reform. the u.k. financial conduct authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or requiring banks to submit rates for calculation of libor after 2021. these reforms may cause libor to be performed differently and libor may ultimately cease to exist after 2021. alternative benchmark rates replacing libor could affect some of the company's debt agreements which terminate after 2021. in addition, any changes to benchmark rates may have an impact on our borrowing costs. these factors could negatively impact our results of operations. climate change laws and related regulations could negatively impact the company's business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. climate change has received increased attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gas emissions, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit such emissions. either the enactment of, or change to existing laws and regulations could mandate more restrictive standards or require such changes on a more accelerated time frame. there continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. to the extent our customers are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions, which could adversely impact their demand for our products and services. also, if these laws or regulations impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements on us, they could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. in either event, they could negatively impact our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. regulator, shareholder and customer focus on environmental, social and governance responsibility could expose us to additional costs or risks and adversely impact our business, the market value of our stock and our results of operations. regulators, shareholders and customers have focused increasingly on the environmental, social and governance practices of companies. this has led to an increase in regulations and may cause us to be subject to additional regulations in the future. our customers or other interested parties may also require us to implement certain environmental, social or governance procedures or standards before doing or continuing to do business with us. this increased attention on environmental, social and governance practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, the market value of our stock, and our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. ( unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company's debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was approximately $99 million greater than carrying value at december 31, 2019 and approximately $35 million less than carrying value at december 31, 2018 . the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2019 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company's interest costs for its notes. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. long-term debt as of december 31, scheduled maturity date 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter 2019 2018 principal fixed rate debt $ $ $ 300.0 $ $ 300.0 $ 1,000.0 $1,600.0 $1,100.0 average stated interest rate 3.40 % 3.80 % 3.95 % 3.82 % 3.55 % principal variable rate debt 1 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 262.5 3.8 466.3 3.8 unamortized discounts and deferred loan costs (14.9 ) (10.1 ) commercial paper 2 61.5 70.0 miscellaneous debt, primarily finance leases 4.7 5.3 total debt 2,117.6 1,169.0 less: current maturities 51.1 1.2 total long-term debt $2,066.5 $1,167.8 1 in january 2019, we issued a $500 five-year tranche a term loan with our current bank group. we pay quarterly principal installments of $12.5 through the maturity date of january 2024, at which time we will pay the remaining principal. additional principal payments, including a complete early payoff, are allowed without penalty. as of december 31, 2019 , we had repaid $37.5, as scheduled, on the tranche a term loan. the tranche a term loan bears a variable interest rate as defined in the agreement and was 2.9% at december 31, 2019 . interest is payable based upon a time interval that depends on the selection of interest rate period, and at december 31, 2019 , there was no material accrued interest payable on the tranche a loan. 2 the weighted average interest rate on the balance of commercial paper outstanding at the year ended december 31, 2019 was 2.0% . the weighted average interest rate for the average commercial paper outstanding during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 was 2.6% and 2.4% , respectively. in january 2019, we increased the size of the revolving facility from $800 to $1,200, added a five-year $500 term loan facility, and extended the term from 2022 to 2024. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates and foreign currency. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company's policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges and fair value hedges is provided in note t beginning on page 119 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. 56 table of contents part ii investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment. this investment may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company's net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar at december 31 is as follows: functional currency (amounts in millions) 2019 2018 european currencies $ 348.6 $ 331.5 chinese renminbi 273.8 299.0 canadian dollar 254.4 203.2 mexican peso 36.3 31.3 other 66.1 63.4 total $ 979.2 $ 928.4quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rate the table below provides information about the company's debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company has no other significant financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company has not typically in the past used derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate changes. however, during 2000, $350 of 7.65% fixed rate debt maturing in february 2005 and, in 1999, $14 of 13 6.90% fixed rate debt maturing in june 2004 were issued and converted to variable rate debt by use of interest rate swap agreements. these swap agreements, which contain the same payment dates as the original issues, are used primarily by the company to manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix of its debt portfolio, and are included as variable rate debt in the table below. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars (u.s.$). the fair value of fixed rate debt was not significantly different from its carrying value as of december 31, 2000, and was less than its carrying value by $11.2 at december 31, 1999. the fair value of the fixed rate debt was calculated using the u.s. treasury bond rate as of december 31, 2000 and 1999 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated "spread" over such treasury securities representing the company's interest costs under its medium-term note program. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date ----------------------------------------------- long-term debt as of december 31 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 thereafter 2000 1999 - -------------------- ----- ----- ------ ------ ----- ---------- ------ ------ principal fixed rate debt................... $50.0* $75.0 $114.5 $100.0 $25.0 $191.7 $556.2 $571.2 average interest rate. 7.22% 7.18% 6.27% 6.98% 7.00% 6.67% 6.78% 6.75% principal variable rate debt................... .5 3.4 2.3 14.5 350.5 31.5 402.7 193.4 average interest rate. 4.09% 4.82% 4.76% 6.98% 6.85% 4.93% 6.67% 5.85% miscellaneous debt...... 35.4 26.6 ------ ------ total debt.......... 994.3 791.2 less: current maturities*.......... (5.9) (3.8) ------ ------ total long-term debt.. $988.4 $787.4 ====== ====== - -------- *the 2001 scheduled maturity is not included in current maturities, as the company intends to refinance this note on a long-term basis either through reissuance or unused credit available under its revolving credit agreements. exchange rate the company has not typically hedged foreign currency exposures related to transactions denominated in other than its functional currencies, although such transactions have not been material in the past. the company may occasionally hedge firm commitments for certain machinery purchases, other fixed expenses or amounts due in foreign currencies related to its acquisition program. the decision by management to hedge any transactions is made on a case-by-case basis. the amount of forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2000 was approximately $8.3 (pay u.s. $/receive mexican pesos) and the highest amount during 2000 was approximately $65.8 (pay u.s. $/receive canadian dollars). the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge any translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company's net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to translation exposure at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2000 1999 ------------------- ------ ------ canadian dollar............................................. $186.7 $154.7 european currencies......................................... 131.7 99.0 mexican peso................................................ 44.4 38.1 other....................................................... 12.7 10.0 ------ ------ $375.5 $301.8 ====== ====== 14 commodity price the company does not generally use derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposures to changes in commodity prices. the principal commodity price exposure is aluminum, of which the company had an estimated $50 and $73 (at cost) in inventory at december 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. the company has purchasing procedures and arrangements with customers to mitigate its exposure to aluminum price changes. no other commodity exposures are significant to the company.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rate the table below provides information about the company's debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company has no other significant financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company has not typically in the past used derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate changes. however, during 2000, $350 of 7.65% fixed rate debt maturing in february 2005 and, in 1999, $14 of 6.90% fixed rate debt maturing in june 2004 were issued and converted to variable rate debt by use of interest rate swap agreements. these swap agreements, which contain the same payment dates as the original issues, are used primarily by the company to manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix of its debt portfolio, and are included as variable rate debt in the table below. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars (u.s. $). the fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its carrying value by $13.8 at december 31, 2001, and was not significantly different from its carrying value at december 31, 2000. the fair value of the fixed rate debt was calculated using the u.s. treasury bond rate as of december 31, 2001 and 2000 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated "spread" over such treasury securities representing the company's interest costs under its medium-term note program. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of ----------------------------------------------- december 31 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 thereafter 2001 2000 - -------------------- ----- ------ ------ ------ ----- ---------- ------ ------ principal fixed rate debt..... $75.0* $114.5 $100.0 $ 25.0 $75.0 $116.7 $506.2 $556.2 average interest rate...... 7.18% 6.27% 6.98% 7.00% 7.12% 6.39% 6.73% 6.78% principal variable rate debt.. 3.4* 2.3 14.5 350.5 -- 31.5 402.2 402.7 average interest rate...... 1.91% 1.94% 2.88% 2.18% -- 1.81% 2.17% 6.67% miscellaneous debt**.......... 75.0 35.4 ------ ------ total debt.............. 983.4 994.3 less: current maturities*.. (5.8) (5.9) ------ ------ total long-term debt....... $977.6 $988.4 ====== ====== - -------- *the 2002 scheduled maturity is not included in current maturities, as the company intends to refinance this note on a long-term basis either through reissuance or unused credit available under its revolving credit agreements. **miscellaneous debt includes $38.1 million in market value adjustments of related debt from interest rate swap agreements. exchange rate the company has not typically hedged foreign currency exposures related to transactions denominated in other than its functional currencies, although such transactions have not been material in the past. the company may occasionally hedge firm commitments, other fixed expenses or amounts due in foreign currencies related to its acquisition program. the decision by management to hedge any such transactions is made on a case-by-case basis. the amount of forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2001 was zero, and the highest amount during 2001 was approximately $8.3 (pay u.s. $/receive mexican pesos). the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge any translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital 16 or notes. the company's net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to translation exposure at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2001 2000 ------------------- ------ ------ canadian dollar.... $208.2 $219.2 european currencies 172.2 138.8 mexican peso....... 51.2 47.4 other.............. 28.4 23.3 ------ ------ $460.0 $428.7 ====== ====== commodity price the company does not generally use derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposures to changes in commodity prices. the principal commodity price exposure is aluminum, of which the company had an estimated $46 and $50 (at cost) in inventory at december 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. the company has purchasing procedures and arrangements with customers to mitigate its exposure to aluminum price changes. no other commodity exposures are significant to the company.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rate the table below provides information about the company debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company has no other significant financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company has not typically in the past used derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate changes. however, during 2000, $350 of 7.65% fixed rate debt maturing in february 2005 and, in 1999, $14 of 6.90% fixed rate debt maturing in june 2004 were issued and converted to variable rate debt by use of interest rate swap agreements. these swap agreements, which contain the same payment dates as the original issues, are used primarily by the company to manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix of its debt portfolio, and are included as variable rate debt in the table below. in march, 2003, the company sold its rights under the $350 interest rate swap agreement for $40. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its carrying value by $32.1 and $13.8 at december 31, 2002, and 2001, respectively. the fair value of the fixed rate debt was calculated using the u.s. treasury bond rate as of december 31, 2002 and december 31, 2001 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company interest costs under its medium-term note program. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. 19 table of contents long-term debt as of december 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 thereafter 2002 2001 principal fixed rate debt $ 114.5 $ 100.0 $ 25.0 $ 75.0 $ 25.0 $ 95.2 $ 434.7 $ 506.2 average interest rate 6.27% 6.98% 7.00% 7.12% 7.40% 5.88% 6.60% 6.73% principal variable rate debt 2.3 14.5 350.5 2.0 29.5 398.8 402.2 average interest rate 1.59% 2.08% 1.57% 1.65% 1.62% 1.59% 2.17% miscellaneous debt* 102.8 75.0 total debt 936.3 983.4 less: current maturities (127.7 ) (5.8 ) total long-term debt $ 808.6 $ 977.6 * miscellaneous debt includes $48.8 in 2002 and $38.1 in 2001 of market adjustments resulting from the interest rate swap agreements discussed above. exchange rate the company has not typically hedged foreign currency exposures related to transactions denominated in other than its functional currencies, although such transactions have not been material in the past. the company may occasionally hedge firm commitments, other fixed expenses or amounts due in foreign currencies related to its acquisition program. the decision by management to hedge any such transactions is made on a case-by-case basis. the amount of forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2002 was approximately $1.9 ($1.6 pay british pounds/receive usd; $.3 pay euro/receive usd) and the highest amount during 2002 was approximately $6 ($5 pay usd/ receive canadian; $1 pay euro/ receive usd). the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge any translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to translation exposure at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2002 2001 canadian dollar $ 211.6 $ 208.2 european currencies 221.9 172.2 mexican peso 60.5 51.2 other 33.4 28.4 $ 527.4 $ 460.0 commodity price the company does not generally use derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposures to changes in commodity prices. the principal commodity price exposure is aluminum, of which the company had an estimated $36 and $46 (at cost) in inventory at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. the company has purchasing arrangements with customers to mitigate its exposure to aluminum price changes. no other commodity exposures are significant to the company. 20 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures about market risk leggett &amp; platt, incorporated and subsidiaries (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rate the table below provides information about the company debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company has no other significant financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. during 2000, $350 of 7.65% fixed rate debt maturing in february 2005 and, in 1999, $14 of 6.90% fixed rate debt maturing in june 2004 were issued and converted to variable rate debt by use of interest rate swap agreements. these swap agreements, which contain the same payment dates as the original issues, are used primarily by the company to manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix of its debt portfolio. in march 2003, the company sold its rights under the $350 interest rate swap agreement for $39.9. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its carrying value by $14.3 and $32.1 at december 31, 2003, and 2002, respectively. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using the u.s. treasury bond rate as of december 31, 2003 and december 31, 2002 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company interest costs under its medium-term note program. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter 2003 2002 principal fixed rate debt $ 100.0 $ 375.0 $ 75.0 $ 25.0 $ 71.5 $ 370.2 $ 1,016.7 $ 434.7 average interest rate 6.98 % 2.17 % 7.12 % 7.40 % 6.31 % 4.71 % 4.35 % 6.60 % principal variable rate debt 14.5 .5 2.0 33.0 50.0 398.8 average interest rate 1.45 % 1.13 % 1.30 % 1.27 % 1.32 % 1.59 % miscellaneous debt** 64.9 102.8 total debt 1,131.6 936.3 less: current maturities (119.4 ) (127.7 ) total long-term debt $ 1,012.2 $ 808.6 ** miscellaneous debt includes $23.1 in 2003 and $48.8 in 2002 of market adjustments resulting from the interest rate swap agreements. 29 table of contents cross-currency swap agreement in december 2003, the company entered into a 38.3 million swiss francs (chf) five-year, cross-currency swap agreement with wachovia bank, n.a. this agreement is designated as a net investment hedge. the purpose of this swap is to hedge the chf denominated assets with a chf denominated liability, thereby reducing volatility of exposure to the chf. in addition, the terms of this agreement include that the company will receive interest on $30 usd at a fixed rate of 6.35% and pay interest on 38.3 million (chf) at a fixed rate of 4.71%. at december 31, 2003, the market value of the cross-currency swap was approximately $(.5). exchange rate the company does not hedge all net foreign currency exposures related to transactions denominated in other than its functional currencies. the company may occasionally hedge specific commitments or other anticipated cash flows in foreign currencies. the decision by management to hedge any such transactions is made on a case-by-case basis. the amount of forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2003 was approximately $17.7 ($13.6 pay usd/receive mxn; $2.6 pay gbp/receive usd; and $1.5 pay usd/receive cny). the highest amount during 2003 was approximately $18.7 ($14.1 pay usd/receive mxn; $2.9 pay gbp/receive usd; $1.5 pay usd/receive cny; and $.2 pay gbp/receive cad). the usd/mxn contracts hedge anticipated fixed expenses and the remaining contracts hedge specific asset or liability exposures. the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to translation exposure at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2003 2002 canadian dollar $ 254.7 $ 211.6 european currencies 271.0 221.9 mexican peso 49.8 60.5 other 61.0 33.4 $ 636.5 $ 527.4 natural gas energy swap agreements the company has hedged about 60% of its anticipated domestic and canadian natural gas purchases through june 2004, of which approximately $9.5 remain outstanding at december 31, 2003. the average price under the contracts is $5.63 per mmbtu. there was no significant gain or loss on these contracts, realized or unrealized, as of december 31, 2003. commodity price the company does not generally use derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposures to changes in commodity prices, except as noted above. the principal commodity price exposure is aluminum, of which the company had an estimated $36 (at cost) in inventory at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the company has purchasing procedures and arrangements with customers to mitigate its exposure to aluminum price changes. no other commodity exposures are significant to the company.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company debt sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company has no other significant financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table is denominated in united states dollars. during 2000, $350 of 7.65% fixed rate debt maturing in february 2005 was issued and converted to variable rate debt by use of an interest rate swap agreement. this swap agreement, which contains the same payment date as the original issue, was used primarily 29 table of contents to manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix of its debt portfolio. in march 2003, the company sold its rights under the agreement for $39.9, which is being amortized over the remaining period of the related debt. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using the u.s. treasury bond rate as of december 31, 2004 and december 31, 2003 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company interest costs under its medium-term note program. the fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its carrying value by $6.6 and $14.3 at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter 2004 2003 principal fixed rate debt $ 375.0 $ 75.0 $ 25.0 $ 71.5 $ 15.0 $ 535.2 $ 1,096.7 $ 1,016.7 average interest rate 2.33 % 7.12 % 7.40 % 6.31 % 7.26 % 4.62 % 4.22 % 4.35 % principal variable rate debt .5 .5 2.5 .5 .5 31.0 35.5 50.0 average interest rate 1.75 % 1.75 % 1.82 % 1.75 % 1.75 % 1.81 % 1.80 % 1.32 % miscellaneous debt** 48.5 64.9 total debt 1,180.7 1,131.6 less: current maturities (401.3 ) (119.4 ) total long-term debt $ 779.4 $ 1,012.2 ** miscellaneous debt includes $2.5 in 2004 and $23.1 in 2003 of market adjustments resulting from the interest rate swap agreements. exchange rates the company does not hedge all net foreign currency exposures related to transactions denominated in other than its associated functional currencies. the company may occasionally hedge firm specific commitments or other anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the decision by management to hedge any such transactions is made on a case-by-case basis. the amount of forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2004 was approximately $15.8 ($14.8 pay usd/receive mxn; $1.0 pay gbp/receive usd). the highest amount during 2004 was approximately $16.7 ($15.7 pay usd/receive mxn; $1.0 pay gbp/receive usd). in 2004, these contracts were primarily used to reduce volatility from usd raw materials purchases for certain uk subsidiaries and to hedge about 70% of expected mexican peso needs for 2005. the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and, except for the cross-currency swap agreement disclosed below, does not hedge translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to translation exposure at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2004 2003 canadian dollar $ 280.9 $ 254.7 european currencies 344.5 271.0 mexican peso 56.7 49.8 other 75.5 61.0 total $ 757.6 $ 636.5 cross-currency swap agreement in december 2003, the company entered into a 38.3 million swiss francs (chf) five year cross-currency rate swap agreement with wachovia bank, n.a. this agreement is designated as a net investment hedge. the purpose of this swap is to hedge chf denominated assets, thereby reducing exposure to volatility in the exchange rate. in addition, the terms of this agreement include that the company will receive interest on $30 usd at a fixed rate of 6.35% and pay interest on 38.3 million chf at a fixed rate of 4.71%. 30 table of contents during 2004, the company paid interest of $1.5 on the chf portion and received interest of $1.9 on the usd portion of the agreement. at december 31, 2004, the unrealized loss on the cross-currency swap was approximately $4.5. commodity prices other than for planned purchases of natural gas, the company does not generally use derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposures to changes in commodity prices. in august 2004, the company entered into fixed price swap agreements to hedge portions of its anticipated purchases of natural gas. the company hedged approximately 20% of its anticipated natural gas consumption for the 12-month period beginning in september 2004, 15% of its anticipated consumption for the 12-month period beginning september 2005, and 10% of its anticipated consumption for the 12-month period beginning september 2006. approximately $11.1 of natural gas contracts were outstanding as of december 31, 2004. through december 31, 2004, there was no significant gain or loss, realized or unrealized, on these contracts.risk factors 17 risk factors investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking and other statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec in the future. costs of raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. steel is our largest raw material. during 2004 the price of certain types of steel nearly doubled. in 2005, market prices for most types of steel were slightly lower at the end of the year than at the beginning of the year. although we anticipate the costs for steel to stabilize, the future pricing of steel is uncertain and could increase in 2006 even beyond current levels. 17 table of contents the price increases in the steel market during 2004 led to an above average spread between scrap costs and rod prices. this spread continued throughout 2005, enhancing the earnings of our rod mill. we expect that the spread between the price of steel rod and steel scrap will narrow in 2006. if this occurs, it will negatively impact our results of operations. our operations can also be impacted by other raw materials, including those affected by changes in oil prices, such as chemicals, fibers and resins, as well as aluminum and lumber. throughout 2005, but particularly in the last half of the year, we experienced higher costs associated with the oil based raw materials. we may not be able to pass along future cost increases through selling price increases. in 2005, higher raw material costs led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, our higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this has impacted our residential furnishings product mix and decreased profit margins. we expect this to continue to be an issue in 2006 and could negatively impact our results of operations. we may not be able to improve operating performance in our fixture &amp; display group. our fixture &amp; display group has experienced deterioration in profitability in recent years. we were hampered in our efforts to improve operating margins in 2005 by new program start-up costs and integration inefficiencies associated with the rhc spacemaster acquisition. in september 2005, we announced a restructuring plan where eight facilities in the fixture &amp; display group have been or will be consolidated, sold, or closed. we have estimated that our fixture &amp; display group productive capacity will be reduced by approximately $100 million pursuant to the restructuring plan. if margins do not improve in the fixture &amp; display group, we may incur further charges as we pursue additional restructuring activities in this group. for further information on our restructuring plan, see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation beginning on page 28. asian competition could adversely affect our operating results. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. depending on the particular product, we experience competition based on a number of factors, including quality, performance, price and availability. we face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished product from asia. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, aluminum and chemicals, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could likewise be harmed. also, if our customers move production of their finished products overseas, we believe that our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently, which is particularly true in china. at the end of 2005, we operated 11 facilities in china. if demand in china (and other foreign countries) increases at a more rapid rate than we are able to establish operations in these countries, our market share and results of operations could be negatively impacted. we may fail to meet our acquisition growth goals. one of our growth strategies is to increase our sales and earnings and expand our markets through acquisitions. in 2005 the company acquired 12 businesses, including the third largest acquisition in our history in terms of revenue. we expect these acquisitions to add approximately $320 million in annual revenue. 18 table of contents furthermore, we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future when appropriate opportunities arise. however, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions that are sufficient to meet our goals. further, our acquired companies may encounter unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources, which would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. our operating results may be adversely affected if we do not achieve our acquisition growth goals. higher energy costs could adversely affect our operating results. higher prices for natural gas, electricity and fuel increase our production and delivery costs. many of our large manufacturing operations are heavy users of natural gas and electricity. in addition, certain of our sales are made with terms such that we incur the fuel cost associated with delivering the product to our customer facility. energy costs increased throughout 2005 but especially in the last half of the year, in part due to supply disruptions caused by hurricanes. our inability to respond to these cost increases (by raising selling prices) could negatively affect our operating results. we have exposure to economic factors that may affect market demand for our products. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. this market demand is impacted by many broad economic factors, including consumer confidence, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore drive demand for our components and products. some of these factors also influence the level of business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. significant changes in these economic factors may negatively impact the demand for our products and our results of operations. our assets are subject to potential goodwill impairment. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other intangible assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. as of december 31, 2005, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1.2 billion, or 30% of our total assets. we test goodwill and other assets for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. we could be required to recognize reductions in our net income caused by the impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, which, if significant, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. as disclosed above, our fixture &amp; display group has experienced deterioration in profitability compared to historical levels. we expect that the restructuring plan will lead to improved earnings in the fixture &amp; display group. about $300 million of goodwill is associated with the fixture &amp; display group. if our earnings in this group do not improve, a goodwill impairment charge against earnings may be required. we are exposed to foreign currency risk. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2005, 21% of our sales were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. we currently engage in limited currency hedging transactions. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. we cannot predict whether foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries will have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. 19 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company has no other significant financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. during 2000, $350 of 7.65% fixed rate debt maturing in february 2005 and, in 1999, $14 of 6.90% fixed rate debt 48 table of contents maturing in june 2004 were issued and converted to variable rate debt by use of interest rate swap agreements. these swap agreements, which contained the same payment dates as the original issues, were used primarily by the company to manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix of its debt portfolio. in march 2003, the company sold its rights under the $350 interest rate swap agreement for $39.9. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $23.5 at december 31, 2005, and greater than its carrying value by $6.6 at december 31, 2004. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using the u.s. treasury bond rate as of december 31, 2005 and december 31, 2004 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company interest costs under its medium-term note program. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. long-term debt as of december 31, scheduled maturity date 2005 2004 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter principal fixed rate debt $ 75.0 $ 25.0 $ 71.5 $ 15.0 $ 0.0 $ 735.2 $ 921.7 $ 1,096.7 average interest rate 7.12 % 7.40 % 6.31 % 7.26 % 0.00 % 4.74 % 5.17 % 4.22 % principal variable rate debt 3.3 9.1 9.0 9.0 19.2 22.5 72.1 35.5 average interest rate 2.77 % 2.96 % 2.74 % 2.74 % 3.01 % 3.56 % 3.10 % 1.80 % miscellaneous debt 26.4 48.5 total debt 1,020.2 1,180.7 less: current maturities (98.6 ) (401.3 ) total long-term debt $ 921.6 $ 779.4 exchange rates the company does not hedge all net foreign currency exposures related to transactions denominated in other than its associated functional currencies. the company may occasionally hedge firm specific commitments or other anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the decision by management to hedge any such transactions is made on a case-by-case basis. the amount of forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2005 was approximately $15.9 (pay usd/receive mxn). the highest amount during 2005 was approximately $168.2 ($95.0 pay eur/receive usd; $52.5 pay usd/receive eur; $19.3 pay usd/receive mxn; $1.4 pay gbp/receive usd). in 2005, these contracts were primarily used to hedge known euro-denominated purchases and receivables, about 70% of expected mexican peso needs, and known british pound receivables. the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and, except for the cross-currency swap agreement disclosed below, does not hedge translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to translation exposure at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2005 2004 canadian dollar $ 311.2 $ 280.9 european currencies 270.0 344.5 mexican peso 80.0 56.7 chinese renminbi 79.1 38.2 other 40.5 37.3 total $ 780.8 $ 757.6 cross-currency swap agreement in december 2003, the company entered into a 38.3 million swiss francs (chf) five year cross-currency rate swap agreement with wachovia bank, n.a. this agreement is designated as a net investment hedge. the 49 table of contents purpose of this swap is to hedge chf denominated assets, thereby reducing exposure to volatility in the exchange rate. in addition, the terms of this agreement include that the company will receive interest on $30 usd at a fixed rate of 6.35% and pay interest on 38.3 million chf at a fixed rate of 4.71%. during 2005, the company paid interest of $1.4 on the chf portion and received interest of $1.9 on the usd portion of the agreement. at december 31, 2005, the market value loss on the cross-currency swap was approximately $.2. commodity prices other than for planned purchases of natural gas, the company does not generally use derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposures to changes in commodity prices. at december 31, 2005, approximately $13.0 of natural gas forward contracts were outstanding at an average price of $7.47 per mmbtu, of which the contracts hedging january and february 2006 usage totaled approximately $3.1. at december 31, 2005, the total unrealized gain recorded in other comprehensive income on natural gas contracts was approximately $3.5, net of tax. subsequent to year-end, the company entered into an additional $22.0 of natural gas forward contracts at an average price of $9.19 per mmbtu. at february 28, 2006, the company had contracts in place hedging approximately 75% of its anticipated natural gas consumption for march 2006, approximately 65% of its anticipated monthly consumption for the 6-month period beginning april 2006, approximately 50% of its anticipated monthly consumption for the 3-month period beginning october 2006, approximately 20% of its anticipated monthly consumption for 2007, and approximately 5-15% of its anticipated monthly consumption for 2008. contracts in place at february 28, 2006 totaled $31.9 at an average price of $8.40 per mmbtu.risk factors 17 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking and other statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec in the future. costs of raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we often attempt to implement price increases to recover the higher costs. we encounter greater difficulty in implementing these price increases in industries where we have a smaller market share and in products that are of a commodity nature. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. steel is our most significant raw material. during 2004 the price of certain types of steel nearly doubled. steel costs were more stable (at high levels) in 2005 and 2006, although there were some quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in those years. these market conditions in 2004 and 2005 resulted in an unusually high spread between steel scrap costs and steel rod prices. as a result, this spread created unsustainable margins and earnings at our steel rod mill. in 2006, the average rod margins narrowed primarily due to changes in the global steel market. if this narrowing continues, it will negatively impact our results of operations. our operations can also be negatively impacted by the cost of other raw materials. throughout 2005, but particularly in the last half of the year, we experienced higher costs associated with the oil based raw materials, such as chemicals, fibers and resins. in 2006, the cost of these materials remained relatively flat (at high levels). in 2006, the cost of foam scrap increased steadily with the overall cost doubling from the prices at the end of 2005. in 2005, higher raw material costs led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. this trend continued in 2006. in some cases, higher priced components were replaced with lower priced components. this has primarily impacted our residential furnishings product mix and decreased profit margins. if this trend continues it could negatively impact our results of operations. we have exposure to economic and other factors that may affect market demand for our products. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore drive demand for our components and products. some of 17 table of contents these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. significant changes in these economic factors may negatively impact the demand for our products and our results of operations. demand in the north american bedding and automotive markets was weak for most of 2006. if demand in these markets does not improve, our ability to achieve our long-term targets for sales, margins and earnings for the company as a whole and for the residential furnishing and specialized product segments may be negatively impacted. asian competition could adversely affect our operating results. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. we face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished product from asia. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, aluminum and chemicals, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed. if our customers move production of their finished products overseas, we believe that our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. at year-end 2006, we operated 12 facilities in china. if demand in china (and other foreign countries) increases at a more rapid rate than we are able to establish operations, our market share and results of operations could be negatively impacted. also, we have experienced increased price competition in the u.s. from chinese bedding component manufacturers. this has primarily occurred with low-end commodity products in markets easily served by major ocean ports. we have reacted to this competition in 2006 by selectively adjusting prices and developing new products that help our customers reduce total costs. if this price competition intensifies we could lose market share and our earnings could be negatively impacted. higher energy costs could adversely affect our operating results. higher prices for natural gas, electricity and fuel increase our production and delivery costs. many of our large manufacturing operations are heavy users of natural gas and electricity. our inability to respond to these cost increases by raising selling prices could negatively affect our operating results. in recent years, higher energy prices impacted consumer demand in certain markets. higher energy prices leave less disposable income to purchase products that contain our components. bedding demand has been soft in recent quarters, and we believe this is partially due to the impact higher energy prices have on the consumer. if energy prices increase, this could negatively impact demand for our products and reduce our sales, profit margins and earnings. we may not be able to continue improving operating performance in our fixture &amp; display group. our fixture &amp; display group is operating at levels below our long term expectations. we were hampered in our efforts to improve operating margins in 2005 by new program start-up costs and integration inefficiencies associated with the rhc spacemaster acquisition. in completing the restructuring plan we announced in september 2005, eight facilities in the fixture &amp; display group have been consolidated, sold or closed. as a result of these restructuring activities, we have reduced our productive capacity in the fixture &amp; display group by approximately $100 million. we are realizing expected restructuring benefits; however, margins are still not at desired levels. while overall demand in the fixture &amp; display group has been difficult to predict, we are not anticipating a near-term change in the market. earnings must continue to improve in our fixture &amp; display group from current levels or further restructuring may be initiated. 18 table of contents our assets are subject to potential goodwill impairment. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other intangible assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. as of december 31, 2006 goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1.3 billion, or 31%, of our total assets. we test goodwill and other assets for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. we could be required to recognize non-cash reductions in our net income caused by the impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, which could be material. as disclosed above, our fixture &amp; display group has experienced deterioration in profitability compared to historical levels. the restructuring plan and other initiatives have led to improved earnings in the fixture &amp; display group, but additional improvement is necessary. about $300 million of goodwill is associated with the fixture &amp; display group. if earnings in this group fail to more consistently meet forecasted levels a goodwill impairment charge may be necessary. we may fail to meet our acquisition growth goals. one of our growth strategies is to increase our sales and earnings and expand our markets through acquisitions. in 2006 the company acquired five businesses. we expect these acquisitions to add approximately $75 million in annual revenue. furthermore, we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future when appropriate opportunities arise. however, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions that are sufficient to meet our goals. further, our acquired companies may encounter unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources, which would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. our long term targets for sales, margins and earnings may not be reached if we fail to achieve our acquisition growth goals. we are exposed to foreign currency risk. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2006, 21% of our sales were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. we cannot predict whether foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries will have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. (see discussion of net investment hedges provided in note p to the financial statements on page 92). the fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its $846.7 carrying value by $43.5 at december 31, 2006, and less than its $921.7 carrying value by $23.5 at december 31, 2005. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using an interest rate equal to the u.s. treasury bond rate as of december 31, 2006 and december 31, 2005 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company interest costs under its medium-term note program. a 50 basis point increase in the interest rate would result in an additional $24.0 reduction in the fair value of fixed rate debt. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. long-term debt as of december 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter 2006 2005 principal fixed rate debt $ 25.0 $ 71.5 $ 15.0 $ 735.2 $ 846.7 $ 921.7 average interest rate 7.40 % 6.31 % 7.26 % 4.74 % 4.99 % 5.17 % principal variable rate debt 9.9 9.7 9.7 21.3 .5 22.0 73.1 72.1 average interest rate 3.90 % 3.86 % 3.86 % 3.82 % 3.61 % 4.05 % 3.91 % 3.10 % miscellaneous debt* 192.2 26.4 total debt 1,112.0 1,020.2 less: current maturities (52.0 ) (98.6 ) total long-term debt $ 1,060.0 $ 921.6 * includes $154.4 of commercial paper expected to be refinanced on a long-term basis and is supported by a $400 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2011. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company policy not to speculate in derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in note p to the financial statements on page 92 and is incorporated by reference into this section. investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment and does not hedge translation exposures, except for the net investment hedge discussed in note p to the financial statements on page 92. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to translation exposure at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2006 2005 canadian dollar $ 316.9 $ 311.2 european currencies 299.5 270.0 mexican peso 79.8 80.0 chinese renminbi 115.7 79.1 other 65.9 40.5 total $ 877.8 $ 780.8 49 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors . investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking and other statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec in the future. our 2007 strategic plan may not produce the benefits expected. in november 2007, the company adopted the 2007 strategic plan. there is no guarantee that we will be able to implement the 2007 strategic plan on terms and conditions that are favorable to us. the timing of the implementation may be longer than expected. we may not be able to complete the planned divestitures on terms 15 table of contents favorable to us. we may also experience a negative impact from our employees, customers and vendors. as such, the 2007 strategic plan may not produce the benefits expected by the company. these setbacks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow from operations and the value of our common stock. costs of raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we often attempt to implement price increases to recover the higher costs. we encounter greater difficulty in implementing these price increases in businesses where we have a smaller market share and in products that are of a commodity nature. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. steel is our most significant raw material. in late 2007, we began seeing higher steel costs which are continuing into early 2008. the global steel and scrap markets are very cyclical in nature, and can result in large swings in margins from year-to-year. our operations can also be impacted by the cost of other raw materials. in 2006, the cost of foam scrap increased steadily with the overall cost doubling from the prices at the end of 2005. in 2007, the cost of foam scrap decreased significantly. since our carpet underlay selling prices are tied to the cost of foam scrap, this cost decrease has impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our reported amount of carpet underlay sales. higher raw material costs led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this has primarily impacted our residential furnishings and industrial materials product mix and decreased profit margins. this trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. we have exposure to economic and other factors that may affect market demand for our products. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore drive demand for our components and products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. significant changes in these economic factors may negatively impact the demand for our products and our results of operations. asian competition could adversely affect our operating results. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. we face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished product from asia. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed. 16 table of contents if our customers move production of their finished products overseas, we believe that our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. at december 31, 2007, we operated 12 facilities in china. if demand in china (and other foreign countries) increases at a more rapid rate than we are able to establish operations, our market share and results of operations could be negatively impacted. also, we have experienced increased price competition in the u.s. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. if this price competition continues we could lose further market share and our earnings could continue to be negatively impacted. we may not be able to improve operating results in the store fixtures business unit. the store fixtures business unit in our commercial fixturing &amp; components segment has been placed in the fix category as a result of our 2007 strategic plan and given a 12 month deadline by which to improve performance. factors within the company control could contribute to increased margins and earnings improvements in this unit. these factors include, but are not limited to addressing performance issues at underperforming facilities, and purchasing, pricing and continuous improvement initiatives. we have initiated restructuring in the store fixtures business unit which includes the elimination of approximately $100 million of the unit least profitable revenue. however, through this restructuring activity we may not achieve the margin and earnings improvements that we anticipate. the store fixtures business unit is part of the fixture &amp; display group, which incurred goodwill impairment charges of $143 million for the year ended december 31, 2007. our long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment. a significant portion of our assets consist of goodwill and other intangible assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2007, goodwill and other intangible assets not held for sale represented approximately $1.2 billion, or 29% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment, sundry assets and non-current assets held for sale totaled approximately $1,075 million, or approximately 26% of total assets. goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, and as triggering events may occur. other long-lived assets are tested for recoverability whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. in the fourth quarter of 2007, we conducted interim impairment testing as a result of the changes announced with the 2007 strategic plan and determined that some long-lived assets were impaired. for the year ended december 31, 2007, we incurred goodwill impairment of $243 million, and long-lived asset impairment of $44 million. if our business units do not perform as expected we may be required to recognize additional, material reductions in our net income caused by the impairment of long-lived assets. also, as of december 31, 2007 the company had $481 million of net assets classified as held for sale, of which $15 million represented assets not associated with the 2007 strategic plan. if the proceeds generated from these divestitures do not recover their carrying value, the company will be required to recognize losses on the sale of these assets to the extent of the shortfall. we are exposed to foreign currency risk. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2007, 26% of our sales from continuing operations was generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. we cannot predict whether foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries will have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. 17 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. (see discussion of net investment hedges provided in note r on page 97 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). the fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $19.9 at december 31, 2007, and less than its 45 table of contents carrying value by $43.5 at december 31, 2006. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using the u.s. treasury bond rate as of december 31, 2007 and december 31, 2006 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company interest costs under its medium-term note program. a 50 basis point increase in the interest rate would result in an additional $20.8 reduction in the fair value of fixed rate debt. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter 2007 2006 principal fixed rate debt $ 71.5 $ 15.0 $ 730.0 $ 816.5 $ 846.7 average interest rate 6.31 % 7.26 % 4.72 % 4.91 % 4.99 % principal variable rate debt $ .5 $ .5 $ 8.5 $ .5 $ .5 $ 21.5 $ 32.0 $ 73.1 average interest rate 3.72 % 3.72 % 3.51 % 3.72 % 3.72 % 3.60 % 3.58 % 3.91 % miscellaneous debt* $ 240.8 $ 192.2 total debt $ 1,089.3 $ 1,112.0 less: current maturities $ (88.7 ) $ (52.0 ) total long-term debt $ 1,000.6 $ 1,060.0 * includes $205 and $154 of commercial paper in 2007 and 2006, respectively, supported by a $600 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company policy not to speculate in derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in note r on page 97 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment and does not hedge translation exposures, except for the net investment hedge discussed in note r on page 97 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company net investment in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, subject to translation exposure at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2007 2006 canadian dollar $ 301.4 $ 316.9 european currencies 328.5 299.5 mexican peso 87.7 79.8 chinese renminbi 125.8 115.7 other 70.7 65.9 total $ 914.1 $ 877.8risk factors 21 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. demand weakness in the u.s. home-related, retail, and other markets has led to lower unit order activity, sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak u.s. economy, higher energy costs, a depressed housing market, and low consumer confidence contributed to conservative spending habits by u.s. consumers. late in the third quarter of 2008, our markets weakened appreciably as consumers further reined in spending during this period of credit concerns and stock market volatility. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited long-term visibility into demand trends; however, we currently expect market demand to be soft in 2009. if economic and market conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. 21 table of contents part i u.s. and global financial and credit market volatility could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we continue to monitor our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity in light of the recent distress in the financial and credit markets. further changes in the financial or credit markets could adversely affect us in several different areas as discussed below. due to the recent tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit, our customers may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary cash for their purchases. additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by the current credit and financial market conditions causing delays in product deliveries to us. these delays could negatively impact our customers and/or suppliers ability to conduct business and could adversely affect our unit volume and revenues, and therefore harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. recent deterioration in the securities markets has also impacted asset values of our defined benefit plans. plan assets and liabilities are measured at december 31 of each year. at december 31, 2008, our defined benefit plans were under-funded by approximately $29 million, which represented 13% of the plans benefit obligations. changes in the value of plan assets did not have an impact on the 2008 income statement, however reduced benefit plan assets will result in increased costs in 2009 and may increase the amount or accelerate the timing of required future funding contributions. cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative financial instruments are subject to market value and counterparty risks. changes in the fair value of these items may adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. these balances could also be impacted if the counterparties are unable to meet their commitments in accordance with the terms of agreements. costs of raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. steel is our most significant raw material. in late 2007 we began seeing higher steel costs, and further increases occurred in 2008. the global steel markets are very cyclical in nature, and can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of foam scrap. we experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of this commodity in recent years. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. also, higher raw material costs led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some 22 table of contents part i cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this has primarily impacted our residential furnishings and industrial materials product mix and decreased profit margins. this trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. our debt instrument ratings may be further downgraded which will increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to issue commercial paper and may negatively impact our liquidity. we have maintained a debt rating in the a category (from moody and standard and poor s) on our term notes and public debt for over a decade. on november 12, 2008, moody downgraded the company long term debt rating from a2 to a3 and our commercial paper rating from p1 to p2 citing accelerating contraction in residential and automotive related consumer spending. also, on november 25, 2008, s&amp;p downgraded the company long-term corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings from a to a- and our short-term and commercial paper ratings from a-1 to a-2 citing weak market conditions and financial policies that include a high dividend payout and share repurchases. in addition, both moody and s&amp;p assigned a negative outlook to each of their respective ratings. if the rating agencies were to further downgrade our debt instruments, this may have a negative effect on our cost of borrowing, our ability to issue commercial paper and ultimately on our liquidity. for further information regarding our debt ratings refer to page 58. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. continued economic uncertainty could change our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. asian competition could adversely affect our operating results. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. we face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed. our long-lived assets are subject to potential asset impairment. a significant portion of our assets consist of goodwill and other intangible assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2008, goodwill and other intangible assets not held for sale represented approximately $1.07 billion, or approximately 34% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment, sundry assets and non-current assets held for sale totaled approximately $782 million, or approximately 25% of total assets. 23 table of contents part i we review for potential goodwill impairment on an annual basis as part of our goodwill impairment testing in the second quarter of each year, and more often, if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. in the fourth quarter of 2007, we conducted interim impairment testing as a result of the changes announced with the 2007 strategic plan and determined that some long-lived assets were impaired. for the year ended december 31, 2007, we incurred goodwill impairment of $243 million, and long-lived asset impairment of $44 million. the annual goodwill impairment review performed in june 2008 indicated no goodwill impairments. as a result of the deterioration in the economic and financial climate in the fourth quarter of 2008, interim goodwill and other long-lived asset impairment analyses were performed in the fourth quarter. the goodwill analysis confirmed that fair values exceeded carrying value for all reporting units. future cash flow assumptions were reduced to reflect lower sales and production levels for 2009 and 2010, returning to historical levels thereafter. other long-lived asset impairment charges of $12 million were recorded in the fourth quarter 2008. throughout 2008, we recorded $26 million of goodwill and $6 million of other long-lived asset impairments related to businesses held for sale as updated estimates of fair value less costs to sell became more certain. if actual results differ from estimates used in these calculations, the company could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. we are exposed to foreign currency risk. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2008, 26% of our sales from continuing operations was generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $107.1 at december 31, 2008, and less than its carrying value by $45.1 at december 31, 2007. the decrease in the fair market value of the company debt is primarily due to the increase in credit spreads over risk-free rates as compared to the prior year-end. the fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31, 2008 was based upon a bloomberg secondary market rate. the fair value of fixed rate debt at december 31, 2007 was based upon the u.s. treasury bond rate for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company interest costs. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter 2008 2007 principal fixed rate debt $ 15.0 $ $ $ $ 200.0 $ 530.0 $ 745.0 $ 816.5 average interest rate 7.26 % % % % 4.70 % 4.73 % 4.77 % 4.91 % principal variable rate debt .5 8.5 .5 .5 21.5 31.5 32.0 average interest rate 3.50 % 1.43 % 3.50 % 3.50 % % 1.88 % 1.83 % 3.58 % miscellaneous debt* 97.1 240.8 total debt 873.6 1,089.3 less: current maturities (22.4 ) (88.7 ) total long-term debt $ 851.2 $ 1,000.6 * includes $77 and $205 of commercial paper in 2008 and 2007, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks, the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it 68 table of contents part ii is the company policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in note r on page 123 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures, except for the net investment hedge discussed in note r on page 123 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2008 2007 european currencies $ 287.4 $ 328.5 canadian dollar 205.1 301.4 chinese renminbi 160.0 125.8 mexican peso 51.6 87.7 other 44.5 70.7 total $ 748.6 $ 914.1risk factors 21 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one-quarter of our sales. demand weakness in the majority of our markets in 2009 led to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, a depressed housing market, and low consumer confidence contributed to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends; however, we currently expect market demand to stabilize at these lower levels. if economic and market conditions remain depressed or deteriorate further, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. 21 table of contents part i deteriorating financial condition of our customers could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we serve customers in a variety of industries, some of which are experiencing unprecedented decreases in demand that began in late 2008 and have continued through 2009, due to the weak global economy. while we currently expect markets to stabilize, a sustained economic downturn increases the possibility that one or more of our significant customers, or a group of less significant customers, could become insolvent, which could adversely impact our sales, net earnings, financial condition, cash flow and liquidity. costs of raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we attempt to implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. also, raw material cost decreases generally allow us to pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices tied to higher cost inventory reduces our segment margins and earnings. steel is our most significant raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been extremely volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of foam scrap. we experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of this commodity in recent years. higher raw material costs in recent years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this has primarily impacted our residential furnishings and industrial materials product mix and decreased profit margins. this trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. continued economic uncertainty could change our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. asian competition could adversely affect our operating results. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a 22 table of contents part i portion of their components and finished products from asia. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed. our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2009, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1.1 billion, or approximately 36% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment, sundry assets and non-current assets held for sale totaled approximately $748 million, or approximately 24% of total assets. we review our ten reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in june as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. the annual goodwill impairment review performed in june 2009 indicated no goodwill impairments. goodwill associated with reporting units whose fair values exceeded the carrying value by 10-20% was $373.4 million; $112.3 million of goodwill was associated with reporting units that had 20-30% excess fair value; and $442.5 million of goodwill was associated with reporting units that had fair values in excess of the carrying values by greater than 30%. in the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment in discontinued operations of $3.0 million for our storage products unit because the carrying value of the assets held for sale exceeded fair value less costs to sell. fair value and the resulting impairment charge were based primarily upon offers from potential buyers. for the year ended 2009, other long-lived asset impairments were $2.8 million, substantially all of which were in continuing operations, for fixed assets to reflect estimates of fair value less costs to sell. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset calculations, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges, which could negatively impact our results of operations. we are exposed to foreign currency risk. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2009, 25% of our sales from continuing operations were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. 23 table of contents part i quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $71.1 at december 31, 2009, and less than its carrying value by $107.1 at december 31, 2008. the increase in the fair market value of the company debt is primarily due to the decrease in credit spreads over risk-free rates as compared to the prior year end. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2009 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company interest costs under its medium-term note program. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter 2009 2008 principal fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ 200.0 $ 180.0 $ 350.0 $ 730.0 $ 745.0 average interest rate % % % 4.70 % 4.65 % 4.77 % 4.72 % 4.77 % principal variable rate debt 8.5 0.5 0.5 21.5 31.0 31.5 average interest rate 0.43 % 0.52 % 0.52 % % % 0.56 % 0.52 % 1.83 % miscellaneous debt* 38.4 97.1 total debt 799.4 873.6 less: current maturities (10.1 ) (22.4 ) total long-term debt $ 789.3 $ 851.2 * includes $25 and $77 of commercial paper in 2009 and 2008, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in note on page 115 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. 63 table of contents part ii investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2009 2008 european currencies $ 324.8 $ 287.4 canadian dollar 236.3 205.1 chinese renminbi 157.9 160.0 mexican peso 38.4 51.6 other 63.2 44.5 total $ 820.6 $ 748.6risk factors 21 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one-quarter of our sales. demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, a depressed housing market, or low consumer confidence could contribute to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. if economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. deteriorating financial condition of our customers could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we serve customers in a variety of industries, some of which have and are continuing to experience low levels of demand due to a weak global economy. a sustained economic downturn increases the possibility that one or more of our significant customers, or a group of less significant customers, could become insolvent, which could adversely impact our sales, net earnings, financial condition, cash flow and liquidity. 21 table of contents part i costs of raw materials could negatively affect our operating results. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. also, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices tied to higher cost inventory reduces our segment margins and earnings. steel is our most significant raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of fabrics and foam scrap. we experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of these commodities in recent years. higher raw material costs in recent years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this has primarily impacted our residential furnishings and industrial materials product mix and decreased profit margins. this trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. economic uncertainty or tax law changes could change our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. asian and european competition could adversely affect our operating results. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia and europe. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed. our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2010, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1.08 billion, or approximately 36% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment, sundry assets and non-current assets held for sale totaled approximately $700 million, or approximately 23% of total assets. 22 table of contents part i we review our ten reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in june as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. the annual goodwill impairment review performed in june 2010 indicated no goodwill impairments. at december 31, 2010, goodwill associated with reporting units whose fair values exceeded the carrying value by 10-25% was approximately $190 million; and $740 million of goodwill was associated with reporting units that had fair values in excess of the carrying values by greater than 25%. for the year ended 2010, other long-lived asset impairments were $2.4 million, of which $1.5 million was recognized in continuing operations. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which could negatively impact our results of operations. we are exposed to foreign currency risk. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2010, 28% of our sales from continuing operations were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its carrying value by $6.0 at december 31, 2010, and less than its carrying value by $71.1 at december 31, 2009. the increase in the fair market value of the company debt is primarily due to the decrease in credit spreads over risk-free rates as compared to the prior year end. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2010 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company interest costs under its medium-term note program. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter 2010 2009 principal fixed rate debt $ $ $ 200.0 $ 180.0 $ 200.0 $ 150.0 $ 730.0 $ 730.0 average interest rate % % 4.70 % 4.65 % 5.00 % 4.40 % 4.71 % 4.72 % principal variable rate debt 0.5 0.5 19.9 20.9 31.0 average interest rate 0.50 % 0.50 % % % % 0.56 % 0.55 % 0.52 % miscellaneous debt* 13.5 38.4 total debt 764.4 799.4 less: current maturities (2.2 ) (10.1 ) total long-term debt $ 762.2 $ 789.3 63 table of contents part ii * includes $0 and $25 of commercial paper in 2010 and 2009, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in note on page 119 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2010 2009 european currencies $ 316.4 $ 324.8 canadian dollar 235.1 236.3 chinese renminbi 208.3 157.9 mexican peso 36.2 38.4 other 60.3 63.2 total $ 856.3 $ 820.6risk factors 19 risk factors. investing in our securities involves risk. set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. we may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the sec. we have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products. as a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. to a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. all of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our products. some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one-quarter of our sales. demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. several factors, including a weak global economy, a depressed housing market, or low consumer confidence could contribute to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. in 2011, stagnant demand negatively impacted our major residential markets. many consumers continued to postpone spending on larger ticket items such as bedding and furniture in the face of ongoing economic weakness. if economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. deteriorating financial condition of our customers could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we serve customers in a variety of industries, some of which have and are continuing to experience low levels of demand due to a weak global economy. a sustained economic downturn increases the possibility that one or more of our significant customers, or a group of less significant customers, could become insolvent, which could adversely impact our sales, net earnings, financial condition, cash flow and liquidity. costs of raw materials could negatively affect our operating results. raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. we typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. when we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. reduced selling prices tied to higher cost inventory reduces our segment margins and earnings. 19 table of contents part i steel is our most significant raw material. the global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. this volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of fabrics and foam scrap. we experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of these commodities in recent years. higher raw material costs in recent years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. in some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. this primarily impacted our residential furnishings and industrial materials product mix and decreased profit margins. this trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. we may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. economic uncertainty or tax law changes could change our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. competition could adversely affect our operating results. we operate in markets that are highly competitive. we believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. we face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from asia and europe. in addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. they may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. if we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed by foreign competitors. premium non-innerspring mattresses (those that have either a foam or air core) have experienced rapid growth in the u.s. bedding market in recent years. while still a relatively small portion of the total market in units (approximately 10%), these products represent a much larger portion of the total market in dollars (approximately 25%-30%) due to their higher average selling prices. if sales of foam or air core mattresses continue to grow appreciably, it could reduce our market share in the u.s. bedding market, and negatively impact our sales and earnings. our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment. a significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. at december 31, 2011, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1.04 billion, or approximately 36% of our total assets. in addition, net property, plant and equipment and sundry assets totaled approximately $648 million, or approximately 22% of total assets. 20 table of contents part i we review our ten reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in june as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. in addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. we conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. the annual goodwill impairment review performed in june 2011 indicated no goodwill impairments, but fair market value for one of our ten reporting units (fixture &amp; display) only exceeded book value by approximately 15%. the fair market values of all other reporting units exceeded book value by more than 30%. the goodwill associated with the fixture &amp; display reporting unit was $112 million at december 31, 2011. the unit is dependent upon capital spending by retailers on both new stores and remodeling of existing stores. retailer activity was moderately lower in 2011, and the unit did not meet expectations. if actual performance does not improve and remains at current levels, future goodwill impairments could be possible. in december 2011, management approved a restructuring plan which primarily related to the closure of four underperforming plants. this resulted in long-lived asset impairment of $31 million. prior to that event, our last material asset impairment occurred in 2007. if actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which could negatively impact our results of operations. we are exposed to foreign currency risk. we expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. in 2011, 29% of our sales were generated by international operations. the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. we receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of, and collections from, our customers, and manage the accounting for, and payment to, our vendors. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. if these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. 21 table of contents part i quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (unaudited) (dollar amounts in millions) interest rates the table below provides information about the company debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in united states dollars. the fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its carrying value by $29.2 at december 31, 2011, and greater than its carrying value by $6.0 at december 31, 2010. the increase in the fair market value of the company debt is primarily due to the decrease in credit spreads over risk-free rates as compared to the prior year end. the fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a bloomberg secondary market rate, as of december 31, 2011 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such treasury securities representing the company interest costs under its medium-term note program. the fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. scheduled maturity date long-term debt as of december 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter 2011 2010 principal fixed rate debt $ $ 200.0 $ 180.0 $ 200.0 $ $ 150.0 $ 730.0 $ 730.0 average interest rate % 4.70 % 4.65 % 5.00 % % 4.40 % 4.71 % 4.71 % principal variable rate debt 0.5 2.3 17.6 20.4 20.9 average interest rate 0.24 % % % % 0.29 % 0.31 % 0.30 % 0.55 % miscellaneous debt* 85.4 13.5 total debt 835.8 764.4 less: current maturities (2.5 ) (2.2 ) total long-term debt $ 833.3 $ 762.2 * includes $70.4 and $0 of commercial paper in 2011 and 2010, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2016. derivative financial instruments the company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. in the normal course of business, the company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. the company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. it is the company policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. information regarding cash flow hedges and fair value hedges is provided in note on page 117 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. 62 table of contents part ii investment in foreign subsidiaries the company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. the investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. the company net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries at december 31 is as follows: functional currency 2011 2010 european currencies $ 298.4 $ 316.4 chinese renminbi 249.9 208.3 canadian dollar 217.9 235.1 mexican peso 31.1 36.2 other 61.9 60.3 total $ 859.2 $ 856.3