quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity - market risk sensitivityquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity - market risk sensitivity.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity - market risk sensitivity.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity - market risk sensitivity.risk factors 15 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on fpl group's and/or fpl's operations and fina ncial results, and could cause fpl group's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of fpl group and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and fpl group and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. part i item 1. business fpl group fpl group was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida. fpl group's principal subsidiary, fpl, is a rate-regulated utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy. fpl group capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group, holds the capital stock and provides funding for fpl group's operating subsidiaries other than fpl. the business activities of these operating subsidiaries primarily consist of fpl energy's competitive energy business. at december 31, 2005, fpl group and its subsidiaries employed approximately 12,400 people. for financial information regarding fpl group's business segments, see note 17. in august 2005, president bush signed into law the 2005 energy act, which substantially affected the regulation of energy companies. the 2005 energy act included provisions that, among other things, amended federal energy laws, provided the ferc with new oversight responsibilities, repealed the public utility holding company act of 1935, as amended, which regulated the financial structure of certain utility holding companies and, among other things, restricted mergers and acquisitions in the electric industry, and enacted the holding company act. fpl group is a holding company, as defined in the holding company act. in december 2005, fpl group and constellation energy announced a proposed merger. the combined company is expected to be the nation's largest competitive energy supplier based on generation and have the second largest electric utility portfolio based on number of customers served. the companies are working to complete the merger by the end of 2006. however, completion of the merger and the actual closing date depend upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including shareholder approvals and the receipt of required regulatory approvals. for additional information concerning the proposed merger, see note 2. website access to sec filings. fpl group and fpl make their sec filings, including their annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on the internet website, www.fplgroup.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. fpl operations general. fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925 and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group. fpl supplies electric service to a population of more than eight million throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of florida. during 2005, fpl served approximately 4.3 million customer accounts. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues by customer class was as follows: years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 residential 55 % 54 % 56 % commercial 37 37 37 industrial 3 3 3 other, including deferred or recovered clause revenues, the net change in unbilled revenues and any provision for retail rate refund 5 6 4 100 % 100 % 100 % fpl currently holds 174 franchise agreements to provide electric service in various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2035. of the 174 franchise agreements, four expire in 2006, 18 expire in 2007 and 85 expire during the period 2008 through 2015. ongoing negotiations are taking place to renew franchises with upcoming expirations. fpl considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. see the discussion of the proposed merger with constellation energy under fpl group above. regulation. fpl's retail operations provided approximately 99% of fpl's 2005 operating revenues. retail operations are regulated by the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities and other matters. fpl is also subject to regulation by the ferc with respect to certain aspects of its operations, including the acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy. in addition, fpl's nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. nrc regulations govern the granting of licenses for the construction, operation and retirement of nuclear power plants and subject these plants to continuing review and regulation. retail ratemaking. the underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms. the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). the rate of return on rate base approximates fpl's weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for debt and preferred stock and, typically, an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that an allowed roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiations, which occur at irregular intervals at the initiative of fpl, the fpsc, the state of florida office of public counsel or a substantially affec ted party. in august 2005, fpl and all of the interveners in its 2005 rate case filing signed a stipulation and settlement agreement regarding fpl's retail base rates, which was subsequently approved by the fpsc (2005 rate agreement). the 2005 rate agreement will be in effect through december 31, 2009, and thereafter shall remain in effect until terminated on the date new retail base rates become effective pursuant to an fpsc order. the 2005 rate agreement replaced a rate agreement that was effective april 15, 2002 through december 31, 2005 (2002 rate agreement). the 2005 rate agreement provides that retail base rates will not increase during the term of the agreement except to allow recovery of the revenue requirements of any power plant approved pursuant to the florida power plant siting act (siting act) that achieves commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate agreement. the 2005 rate agreement also continues the revenue sharing mechanism in fpl's 2002 rate agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of certain thresholds will be shared with customers on the basis of two-thirds refunded to customers and one-third retained by fpl. revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second, higher threshold (cap) will be refunded 100% to customers. the revenue sharing threshold and cap for 2006 will be $3,991 million and $4,156 million, respectively, which was established by using the 2005 revenue sharing threshold and cap of $3,880 million and $4,040 million, respectively, and increasing them by the a verage annual growth rate in retail kwh sales for the ten-year period ending december 31, 2005. for each succeeding year, retail base rate revenue sharing threshold and cap amounts will be established by increasing the prior year's threshold and cap by the sum of the following: (i) the average annual growth rate in retail kwh sales for the ten-year period ending december 31 of the preceding year multiplied by the prior year's retail base rate revenue sharing threshold and cap and (ii) the amount of any incremental base rate increases for power plants approved pursuant to the siting act that achieve commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate agreement. under the terms of the 2005 rate agreement: (i) fpl's electric property depreciation rates will be based upon the comprehensive depreciation studies it filed with the fpsc in march 2005; however, fpl may reduce depreciation by up to $125 million annually, (ii) fpl suspended contributions of approximately $79 million per year to its nuclear decommissioning fund beginning in september 2005, (iii) fpl suspended contributions of $20.3 million per year to its storm and property insurance reserve beginning in january 2006 and has the ability to recover prudently incurred storm restoration costs, either through securitization pursuant to section 366.8260 of the florida statutes or through surcharges, and (iv) fpl will be allowed to recover through a cost recovery clause prudently incurred incremental costs associated with complying with an fpsc or ferc order regarding a regional transmission organization. fpl will not have an authorized regulatory roe under the 2005 rate agreement for the purpose of addressing earnings levels. for all other regulatory purposes, fpl will have an roe of 11.75%. the revenue sharing mechanism described above will be the appropriate and exclusive mechanism to address earnings levels. however, if fpl's regulatory roe, as reported to the fpsc in fpl's monthly earnings surveillance report, falls below 10% during the term of the 2005 rate agreement, fpl may petition the fpsc to amend its base rates. the 2002 rate agreement provided for a $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues allocated to all customers by reducing customers' base rates and service charges by approximately 7%, as well as a revenue sharing mechanism based on stated thresholds. during the term of the 2002 rate agreement, fpl did not have an authorized regulatory roe range for the purpose of addressing earnings levels and fpl reduced depreciation on its plant in service by $125 million each year. fuel costs are recovered from customers through levelized charges per kwh established under the fuel clause. these charges are calculated annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect the variance of actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the fuel adjustment charges for prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect a projected variance based on actual costs and usage. due to the significant increase in fuel costs during 2005, fpl filed several revisions to its estimated true-up adjustment. in 2005, approximately $4.1 billion of costs were recovered through the fuel clause. the fpsc has approved a risk management fuel procurement program which is intended to reduce the risk of unexpected fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of fpl's fuel requirements. &nb sp;the results of the program are reviewed by the fpsc as part of the annual review of fuel costs. see energy marketing and trading, management's discussion - results of operations, note 1 - regulation and note 4. capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause and base rates. in 2005, approximately $651 million of costs were recovered through the capacity clause. costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs totaled approximately $176 million in 2005 and were recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 totaled $24 million in 2005 and are recovered through the environmental clause to the extent not included in base rates. fpl was impacted by hurricanes dennis, katrina, rita and wilma in 2005 and by hurricanes charley, frances and jeanne in 2004. these hurricanes did major damage in parts of fpl's service territory and collectively resulted in customer power outages in 2005 and 2004 of 5.3 million and 5.4 million, respectively. at december 31, 2005, storm restoration costs incurred by fpl during 2005 and 2004 exceeded the amount in the storm and property insurance reserve. at december 31, 2005, fpl's storm reserve deficiency totaled approximately $1.1 billion. the storm reserve deficiency associated with the 2004 hurricanes, plus interest, is being recovered primarily through a storm damage surcharge applied to retail customer bills over a 36-month period that began in february 2005, and totaled approximately $297 million at december 31, 2005. the remaining balance of the storm reserve deficiency primarily relates to the storm restoration costs associated wi th 2005 hurricanes. in january 2006, fpl petitioned the fpsc for approval to recover approximately $1.7 billion of storm costs through the issuance of $1,050 million of storm recovery bonds pursuant to the securitization provisions of section 366.8260 of the florida statutes. the storm bond proceeds will provide for the net-of-tax recovery of the remaining balance of the unrecovered hurricane costs of $1,040 million (estimated balance as of july 31, 2006) and the replenishment of the storm reserve to approximately $650 million. if the fpsc determines that the storm restoration costs should not be securitized and instead should be recovered through another means, fpl has recommended as an alternative recovering the 2005 hurricane costs through a surcharge over approximately three years and implementing a separate surcharge to fund a $650 million storm reserve. the fpsc's decision is expected in may 2006. on february 2, 2006, several interested parties fil ed a motion to dismiss fpl's petition, claiming that the petition did not satisfy certain technical requirements. fpl filed its response to the motion on february 6, 2006, asserting that the requirements cited are not applicable to fpl's petition and which were met in any event. the fpsc has the right to review fpl's storm charges for prudence, and has the authority to determine the manner and timing of recovery. see note 1 storm reserve deficiency. in january 2006, the fpsc held an electric infrastructure workshop to discuss the damage to electric utility facilities incurred due to recent hurricanes and to explore ways of minimizing damage and resulting outages to customers in the future. presentations on hurricane issues were made by representatives of city governments, vendors and the florida utilities. on january 30, 2006, fpl filed a report with the fpsc outlining its storm secure plan, a new initiative to enhance its electrical grid as a result of heightened hurricane activity and in response to concerns expressed by the community, state leaders and regulators. on february 7, 2006, the fpsc approved a rule that requires the florida electric utilities to inspect their transmission and distribution wood poles on an eight-year inspection cycle and file an annual report with the fpsc regarding such inspections. the fpsc has scheduled a meeting for february 27, 2006 to discuss what the next step(s) will be. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. such costs may include, among others, o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. competition. fpl currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. in 2005, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of fpl's total operating revenues. various states, other than florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. such a regulatory restructuring, if enacted in florida, would most likely result in a shift from cost-based rates to market-based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. although the legislation and initiatives in other states vary substantially, common areas of focus include when market-based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the market-based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. it is generally believed that transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. within the last few years, these state restructuring efforts have diminished, and several states have delayed the implementation or reversed previously approved restructuring legislation and rules. management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the retail electric industry in florida in the near future. if the basis of regulation for some or all of fpl's business changes from cost-based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. see note 1 - regulation. the fpsc promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam generating capacity by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, such as fpl, to issue an rfp. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the needed generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generation capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the power purchase agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generation capacity. in august 2005, fpl issued part one of a two-part rfp for additional power resources beginning in 2009. fpl's self-build approach calls for building two approximately 1,200 mw natural gas-fired combined-cycle units in western palm beach county, florida, that would be operational in 2009 and 2010. in january 2006, after evaluating alternative proposals, fpl concluded that its self-build approach is the most cost-effective alternative to satisfy the need for additional power resources in 2009 and 2010. fpl plans to issue part two of this rfp in 2006 soliciting competitive bids for additional power resources beginning in 2012. fpl's self-build approach calls for building two approximately 850 mw advanced technology coal generating units that would be operational in 2012 and 2013. the ferc has jurisdiction over potential changes that could affect competition in wholesale transactions. in 1999, the ferc issued its final order on rtos which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. in early 2001, the ferc approved gridflorida (fpl's, progress energy florida, inc.'s and tampa electric company's proposed rto) as the rto for peninsular florida. in late 2001, the fpsc determined that the rto as proposed was not in the best interest of florida customers and required the companies to develop a modified proposal. in early 2002, fpl, progress energy florida, inc. and tampa electric company filed a modified rto proposal with the fpsc changing the structure of gridflorida from a for-profit transmission company to a non-profit iso. in late 2002, the fpsc approved many of the aspects of the modified rto proposal, administratively approving recovery of gridflorida' incremental costs through the capacity clause. during 2004, the fpsc held workshops to address additional gridflorida issues. in 2005, an independent consulting firm performed a cost benefit analysis of gridflorida and concluded that gridflorida would not be cost effective for the retail customers of the gridflorida participants. in january 2006, fpl and the other gridflorida participants petitioned the fpsc to approve the withdrawal of the gridflorida proposal. system capability and load. during 2005, fpl completed the addition of approximately 1,900 mw of natural gas combined-cycle generation at its martin and manatee sites. fpl is currently constructing an 1,150 mw natural gas-fired plant at its turkey point site with a planned in-service date of mid-2007. see competition above regarding an rfp for additional power generation resources beginning in 2009. at december 31, 2005, fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 23,768 mw, of which 20,777 mw are from fpl-owned facilities (see item 2 generating facilities) and 2,991 mw are obtained through purchased power contracts (see note 16 - contracts). fpl's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2006 is approximately 19.5%. this reserve margin will be achieved through the combination of output from fpl's generating units, purchased power contracts and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of load management, which was estimated to be 1,387 mw at december 31, 2005. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. however, customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. during the summer of 2005, fpl set four all-time system peaks: 21,220 mw on july 5, 2005, 21,434 mw on july 6, 2005, 21,611 mw on july 21, 2005 and 22,361 on august 17, 2005. &n bsp;fpl had adequate resources available at the time of these peaks to meet customer demand. capital expenditures. capital expenditures at fpl include, among other things, the cost for construction or acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet customer demand, as well as capital improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities. fpl's capital expenditures totaled $1.8 billion in 2005 (including afudc of approximately $41 million), $1.4 billion in 2004 (including afudc of approximately $48 million) and $1.4 billion in 2003 (including afudc of approximately $18 million). capital expenditures for 2006 through 2010 are estimated as follows: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 total fpl: (millions) generation: (a) new (b) $ 255 $ 520 $ 605 $ 660 $ 500 $ 2,540 existing 450 455 330 395 285 1,915 transmission and distribution 750 665 640 640 645 3,340 nuclear fuel 75 120 85 125 135 540 general and other 145 170 165 160 165 805 total $ 1,675 $ 1,930 $ 1,825 $ 1,980 $ 1,730 $ 9,140 ____________________ (a) includes afudc of approximately $39 million, $30 million, $51 million, $72 million and $71 million in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. (b) includes generating structures, transmission interconnection and integration, licensing and afudc. these estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary from these estimates. see management's discussion liquidity and capital resources and note 16 commitments. nuclear operations. fpl owns and operates four nuclear units, two at turkey point and two at st. lucie. turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 received operating license extensions in 2002, which give fpl the option to operate these units until 2032 and 2033, respectively. the nrc extended the operating licenses for st. lucie units nos. 1 and 2 during 2003, which give fpl the option to operate these units until 2036 and 2043, respectively. the original license expiration dates for turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 and st. lucie units nos. 1 and 2 were 2012, 2013, 2016 and 2023, respectively. the depreciation and decommissioning rates approved as part of the 2005 rate agreement reflect the license extensions received for turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 and st. lucie units nos. 1 and 2. the nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for approximately 30 days. scheduled nuclear refueling outages by unit are as follows: refueling outage unit most recent next scheduled st. lucie unit no. 1 fall 2005 spring 2007 st. lucie unit no. 2 january 2005 spring 2006 turkey point unit no. 3 fall 2004 spring 2006 turkey point unit no. 4 spring 2005 fall 2006 the nrc's regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years prior to the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the extended operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 at the end of its useful life in 2043. see estimated decommissioning cost data in note 1 - decommissioning of nuclear plants, dismantlement of plants and other accrued asset removal costs. in 2003, the nrc issued an order requiring all pressurized water reactor licensees, including fpl, to perform visual and volumetric inspections of reactor vessel heads at each unit's scheduled refueling outage to identify if degradation such as cracking or corrosion has occurred. in conjunction with the nrc order, fpl has performed visual and volumetric inspections of its nuclear units' reactor vessel heads during their scheduled refueling outages since october 2002. fpl replaced the reactor vessel heads at turkey point unit no. 3, turkey point unit no. 4 and st. lucie unit no. 1 during their scheduled refueling outages in the fall of 2004, spring of 2005 and fall of 2005, respectively, and therefore no further inspections will be required at these units until 2009. the inspections during scheduled refueling outages at st. lucie unit no. 2 revealed crdm nozzles with cracks, which were repaired during the outages in 2003 and 2005. it is anticipated that additional c rdm nozzle repairs will be needed at st. lucie unit no. 2's next scheduled outage. fpl intends to replace the reactor vessel head at st. lucie unit no. 2 during its fall 2007 scheduled refueling outage. the cost to replace st. lucie unit no. 2's reactor vessel head, including afudc, is included in fpl's estimated capital expenditures. see management's discussion - results of operations - fpl and note 16 - commitments. st. lucie unit no. 2's steam generators are reaching the end of their useful life. as flaws are identified in individual tubes, they are plugged in order to prevent the tubes from leaking during plant operations. to date, 18.9% of these tubes have been plugged. in january 2005, fpl received permission from the nrc to plug up to 30% of st. lucie unit no. 2's steam generator tubes. current projections indicate that the 30% tube plugging limit could be exceeded during st. lucie unit no. 2's next scheduled refueling outage. fpl is planning to repair any tubes exceeding the 30% tube plugging limit by inserting metal sleeves inside the degraded tubes (sleeving) and has requested nrc approval to sleeve degraded tubes as an alternative to plugging. sleeving degraded tubes is expected to increase the cost and length of the outage. fpl intends to replace the steam generators along with the reactor vessel head at st. lucie unit no. 2 during it fall 2007 scheduled refueling outage. the cost to replace st. lucie unit no. 2's steam generators, including afudc, is included in fpl's estimated capital expenditures above. see management's discussion - results of operations - fpl and note 16 - commitments. the replacement of the reactor vessel head and steam generators is expected to add approximately 55 days to the number of days st. lucie unit no. 2 is removed from service during a typical scheduled refueling outage. during 2003, nuclear utilities, other than fpl, identified that pressurizer heater sleeves made with a particular material (alloy 600) were experiencing penetration cracks and leaks as a result of primary water stress corrosion cracking. as a result, in 2004, the nrc issued a bulletin requesting utilities to identify and inspect all alloy 600 and weld materials in all pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping. due to the amount of time and cost associated with correcting potential leaks, fpl replaced st. lucie unit no. 1's pressurizer during its fall 2005 outage and plans to repair st. lucie unit no. 2's pressurizer heater sleeves and other penetrations during its scheduled refueling and steam generator and reactor vessel head replacement outage in the fall of 2007. the estimated cost is included in fpl's estimated capital expenditures above. since the 2004 nrc bulletin was issued, no leaks have been identified based on inspections at st. lucie unit no . 2. see note 16 - commitments. all pressurizer penetrations and welds at turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 utilize a different material. fuel. fpl's generating plants use a variety of fuels. see item 2 - generating facilities and note 16 - contracts. the diverse fuel options, along with purchased power, enable fpl to shift between sources of generation to achieve a more economical fuel mix. fpl has four firm transportation contracts in place with fgt and one firm transportation contract with gulfstream that together will satisfy substantially all of the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation at its existing units. the four existing fgt contracts expire between 2015 and 2022, while the gulfstream contract expires in 2028. the two contracts expiring in 2015 may be extended by fpl until 2030. to the extent desirable, fpl can also purchase interruptible gas transportation service from fgt and gulfstream based on pipeline availability. fpl has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's gas requirements are purchased under other contracts and in the spot market. fpl has, through its joint ownership interest in st. johns river power park (sjrpp) units nos. 1 and 2, long-term coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of the fuel needs for those units. all of the transportation requirements and a portion of the fuel supply needs for scherer unit no. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts. fpl's remaining fuel requirements for these units will be obtained in the spot market. fpl's oil requirements are obtained under short-term contracts and in the spot market. fpl leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units. see note 1 - nuclear fuel. in 2003, fpl group and fpl began consolidating the lessor entity in accordance with fin 46, "consolidation of variable interest entities." see note 9 - fpl. the contracts for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of fpl's nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from december 2006 through 2013. currently, fpl is storing spent fuel on site pending its removal by the doe. under the nuclear waste policy act, the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. through december 2005, fpl has paid approximately $541 million in such fees to the doe's nuclear waste fund. the doe did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spen t nuclear fuel under the nuclear waste policy act. in 1997, a court ruled, in response to petitions filed by utilities, state governments and utility commissions, that the doe could not assert a claim that its delay was unavoidable in any defense against lawsuits by utilities seeking money damages arising out of the doe's failure to perform its obligations. in 1998, fpl filed a lawsuit against the doe seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from fpl's nuclear power plants. the matter is pending. in the interim, fpl is investigating other alternatives to provide adequate storage capacity for all of its spent nuclear fuel. based on current projections, fpl will lose its ability to store additional spent fuel on site for st. lucie unit no. 1 in 2008, st. lucie unit no. 2 in 2007, turkey point unit no. 3 in 2010 and turkey point unit no. 4 in 2012. these projections are based on additional space provided by new cask pit area storage racks installed at the turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 and st. lucie unit no. 1 spent fuel pools in 2004. st. lucie unit no. 2's cask pit rack is expected to be completed in the summer of 2006, which will extend its capability to store spent fuel through 2010. in addition, degradation in a material used in the spent fuel pools at st. lucie unit no. 1 and turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 could result in implementation of alternative spent fuel storage options sooner than projected. fpl plans to begin using dry storage casks to store spent fuel at the st. lucie units prior to 2009 and at the turkey point units prior to 2010, which would extend their capability to store spent fuel indefinitely. the cost for the dry storage casks is included in fpl's estimated capital expenditures above. in 2002, the governor of nevada submitted a notice of disapproval to congress regarding president bush's recommendation to develop yucca mountain as a nuclear waste depository. the yucca mountain site is the doe's recommended location to store and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. during may and july 2002, congress overrode the notice of disapproval through a majority vote of both houses. the president signed the joint resolution of congress into law in 2002. the state of nevada has initiated legal actions to attempt to block the project. in 2004, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit ruled on a series of challenges to the statutes and regulations established to govern a nuclear waste depository at the yucca mountain site. the court denied all the challenges except for one, regarding an epa rule governing the time period the public would be protected from hypothetical radiation leaks at th e yucca mountain repository. the court's decision will likely result in revisions to the epa's and nrc's licensing rules for yucca mountain and could further delay the licensing process for yucca mountain. the doe is no longer projecting when the nuclear waste depository will be completed. energy marketing and trading. emt, a division of fpl, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel and electricity sales and purchases. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see retail ratemaking, management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 4. environmental. federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air and water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line siting, emf from power lines and substations, oil discharge from transformers, lead paint, asbestos, noise and aesthetics, solid waste, natural resources, wildlife mortality and other environmental matters. compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. during 2005, fpl spent approximately $41 million on capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations. fpl's capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $236 million for 2006 through 2008, including approximately $89 m illion in 2006, and are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in capital expenditures above. environmental regulations are subject to change. the following is a discussion of emerging federal initiatives and rules that could potentially affect fpl. fpl would generally seek recovery under its environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. climate change as a participant in president bush's climate leader program to reduce greenhouse gas intensity in the united states by 18% by 2012, fpl has inventoried its greenhouse gas emission rates and fpl group has committed to a 2008 reduction target of 18% below a 2001 baseline emission rate measured in pounds per megawatt-hour. fpl believes that the planned operation of its generating portfolio, along with its current efficiency initiatives, greenhouse gas management efforts and increased use of renewable energy, will allow it to achieve this target. in addition to the voluntary initiative, the u.s. congress is considering several legislative proposals that would establish new mandatory regulatory requirements and reduction targets for greenhouse gases. based on the most current reference data available from government sources, fpl is among the lowest emitters of greenhouse gases measured by its rate of emissions to generation in pounds per megawatt-hour. however, these legislative proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on fpl's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to fpl group and fpl could be material, depending on the eventual structure of a mandatory program. multi-pollutant legislation the u.s. congress and the bush administration are considering several legislative proposals that would establish new regulatory requirements and reduction targets for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury, and in some proposals, carbon dioxide. based on the most current reference data available from government sources, fpl is among the lowest generators of these emissions when measured by its rate of emissions to generation in pounds per megawatt-hour. however, these multi-pollutant proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on fpl's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to fpl group and fpl could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted. clean air act mercury/nickel rule in 2005, the epa proposed a final rule to regulate mercury emissions from coal-fired electric utility steam generating units under section 111 of the clean air act. the epa's proposed final rule seeks to reduce mercury emissions starting in 2010 through "cobenefits" reduction occurring as a result of pollution control equipment currently installed or to be installed in response to the clean air interstate rule or other environmental rules. this proposed final rule would also allow the epa to implement a mercury emissions trading program. there is considerable opposition to the proposed final rule from environmental groups, which contend that there should be more stringent control of mercury emissions. while the final requirements are uncertain, it is possible that scherer unit no. 4, st. johns river power park units nos. 1 and 2 and certain coal-fired units from which fpl purchases power, may be required to add additional pollution control equipment or purchas e emission allowances in order to achieve compliance with the proposed mercury emission limits. during 2005, the epa determined that new data indicated that nickel emissions from oil-fired units should not be regulated under section 112 of the clean air act, which set maximum achievable control technology standards, and as a result the epa published a final rule delisting nickel from the requirements of regulation under section 112. both the mercury and nickel rulemaking decisions are being challenged by various states and environmental groups. clean air interstate rule (cair) in 2005, the epa published a final cair that requires sulfur dioxide (so 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (nox) emissions reductions from electric generating units in 28 states where their emissions are transported to downwind states allegedly resulting in fine particulate (pm 2.5) and ozone non-attainment. the final rule requires phased reductions in so 2 emissions by 2010 and by 2015, and reductions in nox emissions by 2009 and by 2015, eventually reaching a nationwide reduction of 65% below a 2002 baseline emission rate for each. in the final rule, through the use of modeling data, the states in which fpl facilities are located were determined to be contributors of pm 2.5 and/or ozone production in downwind states. however, fpl believes that the emissions from most of its florida generating facilities are not affecting the non-attainment status of downwind areas. in july 2005, fpl group filed a petition for reconsideration with the epa and a lawsui t in the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia challenging the so 2 and nox provisions in cair. in november 2005, the epa agreed to reconsider several issues raised regarding the final rule. the epa plans to issue a decision on all issues by march 15, 2006. while the final requirements are uncertain, it is possible that the fpl generating facilities in florida and georgia may be required to add additional so 2 and nox controls or purchase emissions allowances to meet the compliance requirements of the final rule. clean air visibility rule in 2005, the epa issued the clean air visibility rule to address regional haze in areas which include certain national park and wilderness areas through the installation of bart for electric generating units. bart eligible units include those built between 1962 and 1977 that have the potential to emit more than 250 tons of visibility-impairing pollution a year. the rule requires states to identify the facilities required to install bart controls by 2008 and allows for a five-year period to implement pollution controls. while the impact of final bart requirements are uncertain, it is possible that some of fpl's bart eligible units may be required to add additional controls or switch fuels to meet the bart compliance requirements. clean water act section 316(b) in 2004, the epa issued a rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act to address intake structures at existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems. the rule requires fpl to demonstrate that it has met or will meet new impingement mortality (the loss of organisms against screens and other exclusion devices) and/or entrainment (the loss of organisms by passing them through the cooling system) reductions by complying with one of five alternatives, including the authorized use of technology, operational measures or restoration measures, and may involve the performance of biological studies. the rules will impact eight of fpl's generating facilities (cape canaveral, cutler, fort myers, lauderdale, port everglades, sanford, riviera and st. lucie). fpl will be conducting the necessary studies/analyses over the next several years and implementing solutions based upon regulatory approvals. the total cost of these solutions, as well as any ongoing biol ogical monitoring that may be required, has not yet been determined. electric and magnetic fields. since the 1970s, there has been public, scientific, and regulatory attention given to the question of whether emf causes or contributes to adverse health effects. these fields exist whenever there is a flow of electricity, including in power lines, appliances and building wiring. some epidemiological studies (which typically examine the incidence of disease in population groups) have reported a statistical association between emf and some types of cancer, including childhood and adult leukemia. other studies have not reported any such relationship. neither these epidemiological studies nor the more controlled laboratory studies of emf have produced conclusive evidence that emf causes or contributes to any adverse health effects. in 1999, the national institute of environmental health sciences, at the culmination of a five-year federally supported research effort, pronounced that the scientific support for an emf-cancer link is marginal and concluded that the probability that emf exposure is truly a health hazard is small but cannot be completely discounted. in 2001, the iarc conducted an evaluation of power frequency emf and cancer; it classified power frequency magnetic fields as "possibly carcinogenic" based on an association with childhood leukemia reported in some epidemiology studies. the iarc did not conclude that power frequency emf cause or contribute to the development of childhood leukemia or any other cancer. in 2002, the california department of health services (dhs) submitted its emf risk evaluation report to the california public utility commission. the report concluded in part that "to one degree or another, all three of the dhs scientists are inclined to believe that emf can cause some degree of increased risk of childhood leukemia, adult brain cancer, lou gehrig's disease, and miscarriage." in 2002, the national institute of environmental health sciences said in a booklet it published on emf: "for most health outcomes, there is no evidence that emf exposures have adverse effects. there is some evidence from epidemiology studies that exposure to power-frequency emf is associated with an increased risk for childhood leukemia. this association is difficult to interpret in the absence of reproducible laboratory evidence or a scientific explanation that links magnetic fields with childhood leukemia." florida has had emf regulations in place for many years, and fpl believes it is in compliance with the fdep regulations regarding emf levels within and at the edge of the rights of way for transmission lines. future changes in the fdep regulations could require additional capital expenditures by fpl for such things as increasing the right of way corridors or relocating or reconfiguring transmission facilities. it is not presently known whether any such expenditures will be required. currently, there are no such changes proposed to the fdep regulations. employees. fpl had approximately 10,200 employees at december 31, 2005. approximately 32% of the employees are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2008. fpl energy operations general. fpl energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group capital, was formed in 1998 to aggregate fpl group's existing competitive energy business. it is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. fpl energy through its subsidiaries currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates domestic electric-generating facilities in wholesale energy markets. fpl energy also provides full service requirements services to distribution utilities in certain markets. fpl energy manages or participates in the management of approximately 90% of its projects, which represent approximately 97% of the net generating capacity in which fpl energy has an ownership interest. at december 31, 2005, fpl energy had ownership interests in operating independent power projects with a net generating capability totaling 12,053 mw (see item 2 - generating facilitie s). generation capacity spans various regions, thereby reducing overall volatility related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio basis. at december 31, 2005, the percentage of capacity by nerc region or power pool was: nerc region/power pool percentage of generation capacity mapp/rfc/spp/ercot 37 % nepool/nypp 24 % serc/pjm 23 % wecc 16 % fuel sources for these projects were as follows: fuel source percentage of generation capacity natural gas 54 % wind 26 % nuclear 9 % oil 6 % hydro 3 % other 2 % in june 2005, a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group completed the acquisition of gexa corp., a retail electric provider in texas, which serves approximately 1,200 mw of peak load to over 160,000 commercial and residential customers as of december 31, 2005. the texas commodity markets have recently experienced significant price increases, which have led some regulators, government officials and other interested parties to call for a review of the structure and operation of the texas retail market. fpl energy is unable to predict whether such review will occur or result in any changes to the market structure. however, if changes occur in the market structure, such changes could affect gexa's ability to sign and retain new and existing customers. fpl energy will continue to monitor these events. fpl energy expects its future capacity growth to come primarily from wind development benefiting from the extension of the production tax credit program through 2007 for new wind facilities, as well as from asset acquisitions. fpl energy plans to add approximately 625 mw to 750 mw of new wind generation in each of 2006 and 2007, including over 700 mw which are currently under construction or have been approved by fpl group's board of directors. in january 2006, fpl energy completed the acquisition of a 70% interest in duane arnold. see nuclear operations. also, see the discussion of the proposed merger with constellation energy under fpl group above. fpl energy's capital expenditures and investments totaled approximately $0.9 billion, $0.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. capital expenditures for 2006 through 2010 are estimated as follows: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 total (millions) fpl energy: wind (a) $ 960 $ 930 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 1,905 nuclear (b) 495 85 40 85 100 805 gas 45 15 15 5 - 80 other 10 10 10 10 10 50 total $ 1,510 $ 1,040 $ 70 $ 105 $ 115 $ 2,840 ____________________ (a) capital expenditures for new wind projects are estimated through 2007, when eligibility for ptcs for new wind projects is scheduled to expire. (b) includes nuclear fuel and, in 2006, the acquisition of a 70% interest in duane arnold (see nuclear operations). these estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary from these estimates. see management's discussion liquidity and capital resources and note 16 commitments. regulation. at december 31, 2005, fpl energy had ownership interests in operating independent power projects that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the holding company act, which represent approximately 96% of fpl energy's net generating capacity. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. fpl energy's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, hydropower, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities. in addition, approximately 4% of fpl energy's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under purpa. fpl energy's qualifying facilities generate electricity from wind, solar, fossil fuels, biomass or waste-product combustion. qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the federal power act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. while projects with qualifying facility and exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. fpl energy continues to evaluate developing regional market designs. california is scheduled to implement a revised market design in 2007. ercot is considering adopting a revised market design with potential implementation in 2009. in both markets, the final market design is not fully known at this time and fpl energy is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, on its operations resulting from the implementation of such market designs. competition. competitive wholesale markets in the united states continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. revenues from electricity sales in these markets will vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for fpl energy. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets divested under deregulation plans or available from other competitors and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. fpl energy seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. as of december 31, 2005, fpl energy had 86% of its on-peak capacity under contract for 2006. over the last several years, contracting for the sale of electricity output was more difficult as a result of overcapacity in certain regions and diminished market liquidity due to fewer creditworthy counterparties. however, the major markets in which fpl energy operates have shown signs of co ntinued improvement since 2004, such as improved spark spreads and energy prices in ercot and nepool. the combination of new wind projects, expected increase in contribution from merchant assets and asset acquisitions are expected to be the key drivers in supporting fpl energy's growth over the next few years. portfolio by category. fpl energy's assets can be categorized into the following three groups: wind assets, contracted assets and merchant assets. as of december 31, 2005, fpl energy's capacity under contract for 2006 and 2007 was as follows: 2006 2007 project portfolio category available mw (a) % mw under contract available mw (a) % mw under contract wind 3,166 97 % (b) 3,287 93 % (b) contracted (c) 2,461 99 % (b) 2,461 99 % (b) merchant: (d) nepool 2,281 74 % (e) 2,454 49 % (e) ercot 2,598 87 % (e) 2,627 37 % (e) all other 1,417 58 % (e) 1,372 18 % (e) total portfolio (f) 11,921 86 % (e) 12,200 65 % (e) _____________________ (a) weighted to reflect projected in-service dates, planned maintenance, seabrook's planned refueling outage and power uprate in 2006, the acquisition of a 70% interest, or approximately 415 mw, in duane arnold and its planned refueling outage in 2007, and expected production from renewable resource assets. (b) reflects round-the-clock mw under contract. (c) includes all projects with mid- to long-term purchase power contracts for substantially all of their output. (d) includes only those facilities that require active hedging. (e) represents on-peak mw under contract. (f) totals may not add due to rounding. wind assets at december 31, 2005, fpl energy had ownership interests in wind plants with a combined capacity of approximately 3,192 mw (net ownership). the majority of these wind assets have contracts with utilities and power marketers predominantly under fixed-price agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2030. fpl energy operates all but six of these wind facilities. approximately 92% of fpl energy's net ownership in wind facilities has received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the holding company act. the remaining facilities have qualifying facility status under purpa. fpl energy's wind facilities are located in fifteen states, thereby reducing weather-related performance risk on a portfolio basis. fpl energy plans to add approximately 625 mw to 750 mw of new wind generation in each of 2006 and 2007, including over 700 mw which are currently under construction or have been approved by fpl group's board of directors. contracted - at december 31, 2005, fpl energy had 2,046 mw of contracted assets. the contracted category includes all projects with mid- to long-term contracts for substantially all of their output. essentially all of these contracted assets were under power sales contracts with utilities, with contract expiration dates ranging from 2008 to 2020 and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2009 to 2033. approximately 1,776 mw of this capacity is gas-fired generation. the remaining 270 mw uses a variety of fuels and technologies such as waste-to-energy, oil, solar, coal and petroleum coke. as of december 31, 2005, approximately 89% of fpl energy's contracted generating capacity is from power plants that have received exempt wholesale generator status under the holding company act, while the remaining 11% have qualifying facility status under purpa. in january 2006, fpl energy completed the acqu isition of a 70% interest, or approximately 415 mw, in duane arnold. fpl energy is selling its share of the output of duane arnold to interstate power and light company, a subsidiary of alliant energy corporation (ip&amp;l), under a long-term contract expiring in 2014. see nuclear operations below. merchant assets - at december 31, 2005, fpl energy's portfolio of merchant assets includes 6,815 mw of owned nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydro generation, of which 2,700 mw is located in the ercot region, 2,643 mw in the nepool region and 1,472 mw in other regions. the merchant assets include 877 mw of peak generating facilities. merchant assets are plants that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output and therefore require active marketing and hedging. approximately 77% of the merchant assets have gas supply agreements or a combination of gas supply and transportation agreements to provide for on-peak gas requirements. pmi uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. reducing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk however, primarily counterparty and operational risks . nuclear operations. fpl energy owns an 88.23% undivided interest, or 1,076 mw, in seabrook, a nuclear power plant located in new hampshire. fpl energy is responsible for all plant operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the plant, the cost of which will be shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners. see estimated decommissioning cost data in note 1 - decommissioning of nuclear plants, dismantlement of plants and other accrued asset removal costs - fpl energy. in december 2005, fpl energy obtained nrc approval to extend the unit's operating license from 2026 to 2030 to recapture the period of non-operation from 1986 to 1990. fpl energy intends to seek approval from the nrc to renew the unit's operating license for an additional 20 years. if granted, this approval would extend the term of the nrc operating license for seabrook to 2050. in may 2005, sea brook completed its first phase of a power uprate which increased fpl energy's net plant output from 1,024 mw to 1,076 mw. seabrook is periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other modifications. seabrook is scheduled to complete the second phase of the uprate during its next scheduled refueling outage in the fall of 2006, the estimated future costs of which are included in fpl energy's estimated capital expenditures above. the uprate is anticipated to increase seabrook's net plant output to 1,106 mw. in 2003, the nrc issued an order requiring all pressurized water reactor licensees, including seabrook, to perform visual and volumetric inspections of reactor vessel heads at certain scheduled refueling outages to identify if degradation such as cracking or corrosion has occurred. seabrook will be required to perform 100% visual and volumetric inspections during the fall 2006 refueling outage, and subsequently, visual inspections every third refueling outage and volumetric inspections every fourth refueling outage. seabrook has several contracts for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from 2006 to 2014. see note 16 - contracts. currently, seabrook is storing spent fuel on site pending its removal by the doe. under the nuclear waste policy act, the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. the total cumulative amount of such fees paid to the doe's nuclear waste fund for seabrook, including amounts paid by all joint owners since the start of seabrook's operation, is approximately $122 million, of which fpl energy has paid approximately $24 million since the date of the seabrook acquisition. in 2004, fpl energy and seabrook's other joint owners filed a lawsuit against the doe seeking damages caused by the doe's f ailure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from the seabrook facility. the matter is pending. for details on the current status of permanent fuel storage with the doe see fpl operations - fuel. based on current projections, fpl energy will lose its ability to store spent fuel at seabrook as early as 2009. fpl energy is proceeding with a dry cask storage system which will be placed into commercial operation prior to 2009, the cost of which is included in fpl energy's estimated capital expenditures above. this would allow for all of seabrook's spent fuel to be stored on site, including spent fuel storage through its license extension period of 2050, if granted. in january 2006, fpl energy completed the acquisition of a 70% interest, or approximately 415 mw, in duane arnold, a nuclear power plant located near cedar rapids, iowa, from ip&amp;l. fpl energy is selling its share of the output of duane arnold to ip&amp;l, under a long-term contract expiring in 2014. fpl energy is responsible for management and operation of the plant, as well as for the ultimate decommissioning of the facility, the cost of which will be shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners. fpl energy expects to file for a license extension for the plant in 2009, which, if approved, will enable the plant to continue to operate for an additional 20 years beyond its current license expiration of 2014. duane arnold's next scheduled refueling outage is in february 2007. duane arnold is using a spent fuel pool and dry cask storage for storing its spent fuel. energy marketing and trading. pmi, a subsidiary of fpl energy, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. pmi procures natural gas and oil for fpl energy's use in power generation. pmi also sells the output from fpl energy's plants which has not been sold under long-term contracts and purchases replacement power. pmi uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of fpl energy's power generation assets. to a lesser extent, pmi engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. fpl energy also provides full service requirements services to distribution utilities in certain markets. these services include load-following services, which require the supplier of energy to vary the quantity delivered based on the load demand needs of the customer, as well as various ancillary services. the results of pmi's activities are recognized in fpl energy's operating results. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity, note 1 - energy trading and note 4. environmental. fpl energy is subject to the same environmental laws and regulations and is affected by the same emerging issues included in the discussion of fpl's business (see fpl operations - environmental). while the final requirements for section 111 of the clean air act for mercury emissions are uncertain, it is possible that the final clean air act mercury/nickel rule may require a 44 mw coal-fired fpl energy unit in california to add additional pollution control equipment or purchase emission allowances in order to achieve compliance with the proposed mercury emission limits. in addition, while the impact of final bart requirements of the clean air visibility rule are uncertain, it is possible that two of fpl energy's bart eligible units located in maine may be required to add additional controls or switch fuels to meet the bart compliance requirements. furthermore, pursuant to a rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act, two fpl energy plants (seabrook and an oil-fired plant in maine) will be required to demonstrate that they currently meet, or will meet, the prescribed performance standards for the reduction of impingement and/or entrainment at their cooling water intakes through technology, operational measures or restoration measures. fpl energy will be conducting the necessary studies/analyses over the next several years and implementing solutions based upon regulatory approvals. the total cost of these solutions, as well as any ongoing biological monitoring that may be required, has not yet been determined. during 2005, fpl energy spent approximately $2 million on capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations. fpl energy's capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $5 million for 2006 through 2008, including approximately $1 million in 2006, and are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in general above. employees. fpl energy had approximately 2,030 employees at december 31, 2005. subsidiaries of fpl energy have collective bargaining agreements with the ibew and the utility workers union of america (uwua), which expire in february 2008 and september 2008, respectively. the ibew and the uwua represented approximately 5% and 10%, respectively, of fpl energy's employees. other fpl group operations fpl group's corporate and other segment represents other business activities, primarily fpl fibernet, that are not separately reportable. see note 17. fpl fibernet. fpl fibernet was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of fpl group's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support fpl operations. accordingly, in 2000, fpl's existing fiber-optic lines were transferred to fpl fibernet. fpl fibernet is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. fpl fibernet leases wholesale fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to fpl and other customers, primarily telephone, internet and other telecommunications companies. dark fiber in the florida metro market is also sold to third parties. fpl fibernet's primary business focus is the florida metro market. metro networks cover miami, ft. lauderdale, west palm beach, tampa, st. petersburg, orlando and jacksonville. fpl fibernet also has a long-haul network within florida that leases bandwidth at wholesale rates. &nbsp ;at december 31, 2005, fpl fibernet's network consisted of approximately 2,500 route miles, which interconnect major cities throughout florida. at december 31, 2005, fpl group's investment in fpl fibernet totaled approximately $203 million. fpl fibernet invested approximately $11 million during 2005 and plans to invest a total of $55 million over the next five years to meet customers' specific requirements and sustain its fiber-optic network. executive officers of fpl group (a) name age position effective date paul i. cutler 46 treasurer and assistant secretary of fpl group treasurer and assistant secretary of fpl february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 k. michael davis 59 controller and chief accounting officer of fpl group may 13, 1991 vice president, accounting, controller and chief accounting officer of fpl july 1, 1991 moray p. dewhurst 50 vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl group senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl july 17, 2001 july 19, 2001 robert h. escoto 52 vice president, human resources of fpl group assistant secretary of fpl group senior vice president, human resources of fpl assistant secretary of fpl january 25, 2005 november 9, 2004 february 21, 2005 january 25, 2005 lewis hay, iii 50 president and chief executive officer of fpl group chairman of the board of fpl group chairman of the board and chief executive officer of fpl june 11, 2001 january 1, 2002 january 1, 2002 robert l. mcgrath 52 vice president, engineering, construction &amp; corporate services of fpl group february 21, 2005 senior vice president, engineering, construction &amp; corporate services of fpl february 21, 2005 armando j. olivera 56 president of fpl june 24, 2003 james l. robo 43 vice president, corporate development and strategy of fpl group president of fpl energy march 11, 2002 july 26, 2002 antonio rodriguez 63 senior vice president, power generation division of fpl july 1, 1999 john a. stall 51 senior vice president, nuclear division of fpl june 4, 2001 edward f. tancer 44 vice president &amp; general counsel of fpl group assistant secretary of fpl group senior vice president &amp; general counsel of fpl assistant secretary of fpl february 21, 2005 january 1, 1997 february 21, 2005 january 1, 1997 ____________________ (a) executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his present position for five years or more and his employment history is continuous. the business experience of the executive officers is as follows: mr. cutler was assistant treasurer of fpl group from may 1999 to february 2003. he was assistant treasurer of fpl from may 1997 to february 2003. mr. cutler has served as assistant secretary of fpl group and fpl since december 1997. prior to july 17, 2001, mr. dewhurst was senior partner of dean &amp; company, a management consulting and investment firm that he co-founded in 1993. mr. escoto was vice president, human resources of fpl from march 2004 to february 2005. mr. escoto has served as vice president, human resources of fpl energy since april 2002. prior to that, mr. es coto was director of human resources of fpl. mr. hay was president of fpl energy from march 2000 to december 2001. mr. mcgrath was senior vice president, engineering and construction of fpl from november 2002 to february 2005 and treasurer of fpl group and fpl from january 2000 to november 2002. he was also vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl energy from june 2000 to november 2002. mr. olivera was senior vice president, power systems of fpl from july 1999 to june 2003. prior to march 2002, mr. robo was president and chief executive officer of tip, a ge capital company that provides trailer and storage equipment services, and ge capital modular space, a supplier of mobile and modular buildings. mr. stall was vice president of nuclear engineering of fpl from january 2000 to june 2001. mr. tancer was associate general counsel of fpl group from april 2003 to february 2005. he was also vice president and general counsel of fpl energy from february 2001 to february 2005. item 1a. risk factors risks relating to fpl group's and fpl's business fpl group and fpl are subject to complex laws and regulations and to changes in laws and regulations as well as changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the energy industry. fpl holds franchise agreements with local municipalities and counties, and must renegotiate expiring agreements. these factors may have a negative impact on the business and results of operations of fpl group and fpl. fpl group and fpl are subject to complex laws and regulations, and to changes in laws or regulations, including the purpa, the holding company act, the federal power act, the atomic energy act of 1954, as amended, the 2005 energy act and certain sections of the florida statutes relating to public utilities, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the ferc, the fpsc and the legislatures and utility commissions of other states in which fpl group has operations, and the nrc, with respect to, among other things, allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, operation of nuclear power facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, operation and construction of transmission facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, decommissioning costs, roe and equity ratio limits, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail wheeling and transmission costs). the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of any and all costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. the regulatory process generally restricts fpl's ability to grow earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels. fpl group and fpl are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes as well as the effect of changes in or additions to applicable statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife mortality, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs. there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future. fpl group and fpl operate in a changing market environment influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation, regulation or restructuring of the energy industry, including deregulation or restructuring of the production and sale of electricity. fpl group and its subsidiaries will need to adapt to these changes and may face increasing competitive pressure. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations could be affected by fpl's ability to renegotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida. the operation of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involves significant risks that could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of fpl group and fpl. the operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes), as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. this could result in lost revenues and/or increased expenses, including the requirement to purchase power in the market at potentially higher prices to meet its contractual obligations. insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. in addition to these risks, fpl group's and fpl's nuclear units face certain risks that are unique to the nuclear i ndustry including the ability to store and/or dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the potential payment of significant retrospective insurance premiums, as well as additional regulatory actions up to and including shutdown of the units stemming from public safety concerns, whether at fpl group's and fpl's plants, or at the plants of other nuclear operators. breakdown or failure of an operating facility of fpl energy may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. the construction of, and capital improvements to, power generation facilities involve substantial risks. should construction or capital improvement efforts be unsuccessful, the results of operations and financial condition of fpl group and fpl could be adversely affected. fpl group's and fpl's ability to successfully and timely complete their power generation facilities currently under construction, those projects yet to begin construction or capital improvements to existing facilities within established budgets is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. should any such efforts be unsuccessful, fpl group and fpl could be subject to additional costs, termination payments under committed contracts, and/or the write-off of their investment in the project or improvement. the use of derivative contracts by fpl group and fpl in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the results of operations of fpl group and fpl. fpl group and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. fpl group could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, or if a counterparty fails to perform. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. in addition, fpl's use of such instruments could be subject to prudency challenges and if found imprudent, cost recovery could be disallowed by the fpsc. fpl group's competitive energy business is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the control of fpl group, that may reduce the revenues and adversely impact the results of operations and financial condition of fpl group. there are other risks associated with fpl group's competitive energy business. in addition to risks discussed elsewhere, risk factors specifically affecting fpl energy's success in competitive wholesale markets include the ability to efficiently develop and operate generating assets, the successful and timely completion of project restructuring activities, maintenance of the qualifying facility status of certain projects, the price and supply of fuel (including transportation), transmission constraints, competition from new sources of generation, excess generation capacity and demand for power. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity, and there are other financial, counterparty and market risks that are beyond the control of fpl energy. fpl energy's inability or failure to effectively hedge its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty cred it risk or other risk measures could significantly impair fpl group's future financial results. in keeping with industry trends, a portion of fpl energy's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. as a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis, which may affect the volatility of fpl group's financial results. in addition, fpl energy's business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others; if transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, fpl energy's ability to sell and deliver its wholesale power may be limited. fpl group's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, including the proposed merger with constellation energy is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. fpl group is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry, in general, as well as the passage of the 2005 energy act. in addition, fpl group may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. fpl group's ability to successfully complete and integrate the proposed merger between fpl group and constellation energy is subject to certain risks and uncertainties including the ability to obtain governmental approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms, conditions and schedule; the failure of fpl group or constellation energy's shareholders to approve the transaction; the risk that anticipated synergies will not be achieved or will take longer to achieve than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees, suppliers or governmental entities; unexpected transaction costs or liabilities; economic conditions; and other specific factors discussed in documents filed with the sec by both fpl group and constellation energy. these risks, as well as other risks associated with the merger, will be more fully discussed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on form s-4 that constellation energy will file with the sec in connection with the proposed merger. because fpl group and fpl rely on access to capital markets, the inability to maintain current credit ratings and access capital markets on favorable terms may limit the ability of fpl group and fpl to grow their businesses and would likely increase interest costs. fpl group and fpl rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. the inability of fpl group, fpl group capital and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets, which, in turn, could impact fpl group's and fpl's ability to grow their businesses and would likely increase their interest costs. customer growth in fpl's service area affects fpl group's results of operations. fpl group's results of operations are affected by the growth in customer accounts in fpl's service area. customer growth can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in florida, including job and income growth, housing starts and new home prices. customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities at fpl. weather affects fpl group's and fpl's results of operations. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations are affected by changes in the weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities, and can affect the production of electricity at wind and hydro-powered facilities. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations can be affected by the impact of severe weather which can be destructive, causing outages and/or property damage, may affect fuel supply, and could require additional costs to be incurred. at fpl, recovery of these costs is subject to fpsc approval. fpl group and fpl are subject to costs and other effects of legal proceedings as well as changes in or additions to applicable tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws and corporate governance requirements. fpl group and fpl are subject to costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, as well as the effect of new, or changes in, tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws and corporate governance requirements. threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact the operations of fpl group and fpl in unpredictable ways. fpl group and fpl are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets. the effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things, terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit power, the risk of a significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the u.s. economy, delay in economic recovery in the u.s., and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance. the ability of fpl group and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be affected by national, state or local events and company-specific events. fpl group's and fpl's ability to obtain insurance, and the cost of and coverage provided by such insurance, could be affected by national, state or local events as well as company-specific events. fpl group and fpl are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect the businesses and financial condition of fpl group and fpl. fpl group and fpl are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees and work stoppage that could affect the businesses and financial condition of fpl group and fpl. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity - market risk sensitivity.risk factors 16 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on fpl group's and/or fpl's operations and fina ncial results, and could cause fpl group's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of fpl group and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and fpl group and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. part i item 1. business fpl group fpl group was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida. fpl group's principal subsidiary, fpl, is a rate-regulated utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy. fpl group capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group, holds the capital stock and provides funding for fpl group's operating subsidiaries other than fpl. the business activities of these operating subsidiaries primarily consist of fpl energy's competitive energy business. at december 31, 2006, fpl group and its subsidiaries employed approximately 13,300 people. for financial information regarding fpl group's business segments, see note 17. in 2005, president bush signed into law the 2005 energy act, which substantially affected the regulation of energy companies. the 2005 energy act included provisions that, among other things, amended federal energy laws, provided the ferc with new oversight responsibilities, repealed the public utility holding company act of 1935, as amended, which regulated the financial structure of certain utility holding companies and, among other things, restricted mergers and acquisitions in the electric industry, and enacted the holding company act. fpl group is a holding company, as defined in the holding company act. in december 2005, fpl group and constellation energy announced a proposed merger. as a result of continued uncertainty over regulatory and judicial matters in maryland, on october 24, 2006, fpl group and constellation energy mutually agreed to terminate the proposed merger. no termination fee is payable under the termination agreement unless constellation energy agrees with another party to a comparable transaction on or prior to september 30, 2007, in which case a fee will be payable to fpl group by constellation energy. for additional information, see note 2. environmental. federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air and water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line siting, emf from power lines and substations, oil discharge from transformers, lead paint, asbestos, noise and aesthetics, solid waste, natural resources, wildlife mortality and other environmental matters. compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. environmental regulations are subject to change. the following is a discussion of emerging federal initiatives and rules that could potentially affect fpl group. see fpl operations - environmental and fpl energy operations - environmental for a discussion of certain impac ts specific to those entities. climate change as a participant in president bush's climate leader program to reduce greenhouse gas intensity in the united states by 18% by 2012, fpl group has inventoried its greenhouse gas emission rates and has committed to a 2008 reduction target of 18% below a 2001 baseline emission rate measured in pounds per megawatt-hour. fpl group believes that the planned operation of its generating portfolio, along with its current efficiency initiatives, greenhouse gas management efforts and increased use of renewable energy, will allow it to achieve this target. in addition, fpl group has joined the u.s. climate action partnership, an alliance made up of a diverse group of u.s.-based businesses and environmental organizations, which in early 2007 issued a set of principles and recommendations to address global climate change and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress is considering several legislative proposals that would establish new mandatory regulatory requirements and reduction targets for greenhouse gases. based on the most current reference data available from government sources, fpl group is among the lowest emitters of greenhouse gases measured by its rate of emissions to generation in pounds per megawatt-hour. however, these legislative proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on fpl's and fpl energy's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to fpl group and fpl could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted and specific implementation rules adopted. multi-pollutant legislation the u.s. congress and the bush administration are considering several legislative proposals that would establish new regulatory requirements and reduction targets for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury, and in some proposals, carbon dioxide. based on the most current reference data available from government sources, fpl group is among the lowest generators of these emissions measured by its rate of emissions to generation in pounds per megawatt-hour. however, these multi-pollutant proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on fpl's and fpl energy's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to fpl group and fpl could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted and specific implementation rules adopted. clean air act mercury/nickel rule in 2005, the epa proposed a final rule to regulate mercury emissions from coal-fired electric utility steam generating units under section 111 of the clean air act. the epa's proposed final rule seeks to reduce mercury emissions starting in 2010 through "cobenefits" reduction occurring as a result of pollution control equipment currently installed or to be installed in response to the clean air interstate rule or other environmental rules. this proposed final rule would also allow the epa to implement a mercury emissions trading program. there is considerable opposition to the proposed final rule from environmental groups, which contend that there should be more stringent control of mercury emissions. during 2005, the epa determined that new data indicated that nickel emissions from oil-fired units should not be regulated under section 112 of the clean air act, which set maximum achievable control technology standards, and as a result the epa published a final rule delisting nickel from the requirements of regulation under section 112. both the mercury and nickel rulemaking decisions are being challenged by various states and environmental groups. clean air interstate rule (cair) in 2005, the epa published a final cair that requires so 2 and nox emissions reductions from electric generating units in 28 states where their emissions are transported to downwind states allegedly resulting in fine particulate (pm 2.5) and ozone non-attainment. the final rule requires phased reductions in so 2 emissions by 2010 and by 2015, and reductions in nox emissions by 2009 and by 2015, eventually reaching a nationwide reduction of 65% below a 2002 baseline emission rate for each. in the final rule, through the use of modeling data, the states in which fpl facilities are located were determined to be contributors of pm 2.5 and/or ozone production in downwind states. however, fpl group believes that the emissions from most of its florida generating facilities are not affecting the non-attainment status of downwind areas. in 2005, fpl group filed a petition for reconsideration with the epa and a lawsuit in the u.s. court of appeals fo r the district of columbia challenging the so 2 and nox provisions in cair. in march 2006, the epa denied fpl group's and other petitioners' requests to revise the final rule. fpl group will continue to challenge the so 2 and nox provisions of the final rule through the lawsuit that it filed. clean air visibility rule in 2005, the epa issued the clean air visibility rule to address regional haze in areas which include certain national park and wilderness areas through the installation of bart for electric generating units. bart eligible units include those built between 1962 and 1977 that have the potential to emit more than 250 tons of visibility-impairing pollution a year. the rule requires states to identify the facilities required to install bart controls by 2008 and allows for a five-year period to implement pollution controls. clean water act section 316(b) in 2004, the epa issued a rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act to address location, design, construction and capacity of intake structures at existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems. the rule requires fpl group to demonstrate that it has met or will meet new impingement mortality (the loss of organisms against screens and other exclusion devices) and/or entrainment (the loss of organisms by passing through the cooling water system) reductions by complying with one of several compliance alternatives, including the use of technology and/or operational measure and response to the rule may involve the performance of biological studies. fpl group has been conducting the necessary studies/analyses over the past few years and was planning to submit solutions for regulatory approval in early 2008. however, on january 25, 2007, the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit ruled on a challenge to the rule by a number of environmental groups and si x northeastern states. in its ruling, the court eliminated several of the compliance alternatives, including the use of restoration measures, from consideration and remanded the rule to the epa for further rulemaking. accordingly, the final requirements are uncertain. website access to sec filings. fpl group and fpl make their sec filings, including their annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on fpl group's internet website, www.fplgroup.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. fpl operations general. fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925 and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group. fpl supplies electric service to a population of more than 8.5 million throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of florida. during 2006, fpl served approximately 4.4 million customer accounts. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues by customer class was as follows: years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 residential 54 % 55 % 54 % commercial 39 37 37 industrial 3 3 3 other, including deferred or recovered clause revenues, the net change in unbilled revenues, any provision for retail rate refund, gas, transmission and wholesale sales and customer-related fees 4 5 6 100 % 100 % 100 % fpl currently holds 176 franchise agreements to provide electric service in various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2037. of the 176 franchise agreements, 13 expire in 2007, six expire in 2008 and 157 expire during the period 2009 through 2037. ongoing negotiations are taking place to renew franchises with upcoming expirations. fpl considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. regulation. fpl's retail operations provided approximately 99% of fpl's 2006 operating revenues. retail operations are regulated by the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities and other matters. fpl is also subject to regulation by the ferc with respect to certain aspects of its operations, including the acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy. in addition, fpl's nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. nrc regulations govern the granting of licenses for the construction, operation and retirement of nuclear power plants and subject these plants to continuing review and regulation. retail ratemaking. the underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms. the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). the rate of return on rate base approximates fpl's weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and preferred stock and, typically, an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that an allowed roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiations, which occur at irregular intervals at the initiative of fpl, the fpsc, the state of florida office of public counsel or a substan tially affected party. in 2005, the fpsc approved a stipulation and settlement agreement regarding fpl's retail base rates (2005 rate agreement), signed by fpl and all of the interveners in its 2005 rate case filing. fpl expects the 2005 rate agreement to be in effect through december 31, 2009, and thereafter shall remain in effect until terminated on the date new retail base rates become effective pursuant to an fpsc order. the 2005 rate agreement replaced a rate agreement that was effective april 15, 2002 through december 31, 2005 (2002 rate agreement). the 2005 rate agreement provides that retail base rates will not increase during the term of the agreement except to allow recovery of the revenue requirements of any power plant approved pursuant to the florida power plant siting act (siting act) that achieves commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate agreement. retail base rates will increase approximately $127 million on an annualized basis when a 1,144 mw natural gas-fired plant at fpl's turkey point site (turkey point unit no. 5) is placed in service, which is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2007 (see system capability and load below). the 2005 rate agreement also continues the revenue sharing mechanism in fpl's 2002 rate agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of certain thresholds will be shared with customers on the basis of two-thirds refunded to customers and one-third retained by fpl. revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second, higher threshold (cap) will be refunded 100% to customers. the revenue sharing threshold and cap for 2007 and each succeeding year is established by increasing the prior year's threshold and cap by the sum of the following: (i) the average annual growth rate in retail kwh sales for the ten-year period ending december 31 of the preceding year multiplied by the prior year's retail base rate revenue sharing threshold and cap and (ii) the amount of any incremental base rate increases for power plants approved pursuant to the siting act that achieve commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate agreement. the revenue sharing threshold and cap for 2007 is estimated to be $4,203 million and $4,373 million, respectively, and will be adjusted based on the actual incremental base revenues associated with turkey point unit no. 5 going into service in the second quarter of 2007. for the year ended december 31, 2006, revenues from retail base operations did no t exceed the 2006 threshold. under the terms of the 2005 rate agreement: (i) fpl's electric property depreciation rates are based upon the comprehensive depreciation studies it filed with the fpsc in march 2005; however, fpl may reduce depreciation by up to $125 million annually which was also permitted under the 2002 rate agreement, (ii) fpl suspended contributions of approximately $79 million per year to its nuclear decommissioning fund beginning in september 2005, (iii) fpl suspended contributions of $20.3 million per year to its storm and property insurance reserve beginning in 2006 and has the ability to recover prudently incurred storm restoration costs, either through securitization pursuant to section 366.8260 of the florida statutes or through surcharges, and (iv) fpl will be allowed to recover through a cost recovery clause prudently incurred incremental costs associated with complying with an fpsc or ferc order regarding a regional transmission organization. fpl does not have an authorized regulatory roe under the 2005 rate agreement for the purpose of addressing earnings levels. for all other regulatory purposes, fpl has an roe of 11.75%. under the 2005 rate agreement, the revenue sharing mechanism described above is the appropriate and exclusive mechanism to address earnings levels. however, if fpl's regulatory roe, as reported to the fpsc in fpl's monthly earnings surveillance report, falls below 10% during the term of the 2005 rate agreement, fpl may petition the fpsc to amend its base rates. fuel costs are recovered from customers through levelized charges per kwh established under the fuel clause. these charges are calculated annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect the variance of actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the fuel adjustment charges for prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect a projected variance based on actual costs and usage. in 2006, approximately $6.4 billion of costs were recovered through the fuel clause. the fpsc has approved a risk management fuel procurement program which is intended to reduce the risk of unexpected fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of fpl's fuel requirements. the results of the program are reviewed by the fpsc as part of the annual review of fuel costs.&nbs p; see energy marketing and trading, management's discussion - results of operations, note 1 - regulation and note 4. capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause and base rates. in 2006, approximately $583 million of costs were recovered through the capacity clause. costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs totaled approximately $174 million in 2006 and were recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 totaled $26 million in 2006 and were recovered through the environmental clause to the extent not included in base rates. in february 2007, the fpsc approved a nuclear cost recovery rule that provides for the recovery of all prudently incurred costs for siting, designing, licensing and constructing new nuclear power plants. fpl is in the process of evaluating the economics, risks and advisability, among other things, of potentially building a new nuclear power plant in its service area. fpl was impacted by four hurricanes in 2005 and three hurricanes in 2004, which caused major damage in parts of fpl's service territory. storm restoration costs incurred by fpl during 2005 and 2004 exceeded the amount in the storm and property insurance reserve. at december 31, 2006, fpl's storm reserve deficiency totaled approximately $868 million. in may 2006, the fpsc approved the issuance of up to $708 million of bonds pursuant to the securitization provisions of section 366.8260 of the florida statutes for the net-of-tax recovery by fpl of the estimated storm reserve deficiency, including interest, and for a storm and property insurance reserve of $200 million. the unrecovered 2004 storm restoration costs are being recovered through a previously approved storm damage surcharge applied to retail customer bills since february 2005. once the bonds are issued, a surcharge to retail customers will be used for repayment of the outstanding bonds. &nbs p;fpl is working with the fpsc staff and its financial advisors to complete the issuance of the bonds. see note 1 - storm reserve deficiency. in january 2006, fpl introduced an initiative to enhance its electrical grid as a result of heightened hurricane activity and in response to concerns expressed by the community, state leaders and regulators. the estimated capital expenditures associated with this initiative, as well as the fpsc's approved storm preparedness plan (collectively, storm secure sm plan) for 2007 through 2011 are included in fpl's projected capital expenditures. see capital expenditures below and note 16 - commitments. see also management's discussion - results of operations - fpl for further discussion regarding the impact of storm secure plan costs on o&amp;m expenses. the estimated costs associated with the storm secure plan, both capital expenditures and o&amp;m expenses, are subject to change over time based on, among other things, productivity enhancements and prioritization. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. such costs may include, among others, o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. competition. fpl currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. the ferc has jurisdiction over potential changes that could affect competition in wholesale transactions. in 2006, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of fpl's total operating revenues. various states, other than florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the retail electric industry in florida in the near future. if the basis of regulation for some or all of fpl's business changes from cost-based r egulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. see management's discussion - critical accounting policies and estimates - regulatory accounting. the fpsc promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam generating capacity by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, such as fpl, to issue an rfp. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generation capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the power purchase agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generation capacity. in september 2006, the fpsc granted fpl an exemption from the fpsc's bid rule for two ultra super critical pulverized coal generating units that fpl is seeking to build in glades county, flo rida. see system capability and load. effective february 2007, the fpsc eliminated the requirement for utilities to issue an rfp for new nuclear power plants sited after june 2006. system capability and load. at december 31, 2006, fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 24,651 mw, of which 20,981 mw were from fpl-owned facilities (see item 2 generating facilities) and 3,670 mw were available through purchased power contracts (see note 16 - contracts). fpl's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2007 is approximately 22.6% and reflects the addition of turkey point unit no. 5, which is expected to be placed in service during the second quarter of 2007. this reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of output from fpl's generating units, purchased power contracts and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of load management, which was estimated to be 1,444 mw at december 31, 2006. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. however, customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. the highest peak fpl has served to date was a summer peak of 22,361 mw, which occurred on august 17, 2005. fpl had adequate resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand. turkey point unit no. 5 is currently under construction and is expected to be placed in service during the second quarter of 2007. in june 2006, the fpsc approved fpl's proposal to build two approximately 1,220 mw natural gas-fired combined-cycle units in western palm beach county, florida, with planned in-service dates of 2009 and 2010, which were subsequently approved by the siting board (comprised of the florida governor and cabinet) under the siting act in december 2006. in february 2007, fpl filed a need application with the fpsc to build two ultra super critical pulverized coal generating units totaling approximately 1,960 mw in glades county, florida with planned in-service dates of 2013 and 2014. fuel mix. fpl's generating plants use a variety of fuels. the diverse fuel options, along with purchased power, enable fpl to shift between sources of generation to achieve a more economical fuel mix. see fossil operations, nuclear operations and item 2 - generating facilities. fpl's 2006 fuel mix based on kwh produced was as follows: source natural gas 50 % nuclear 20 % purchased power 17 % oil 8 % coal 5 % fossil operations. fpl owns and operates 82 units that utilize fossil fuels such as natural gas and/or oil, and has a joint-ownership interest in three coal units. fpl's fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of mild weather. since june 2006, fpl has experienced compressor blade failures in three combustion turbine compressors (ctcs) at two of its fossil generating plants, resulting in significant damage to the combustion turbines. fpl has 28 of this type of ctcs in its generating fleet, which were all made by the same manufacturer. recently other companies in the electric industry have reported similar failures. the manufacturer of the ctcs has determined the root cause of the first failure experienced by fpl involving a rotating blade and is in the process of determining how to remediate the issue. &nb sp;in the interim, fpl is conducting inspections of all rotating compressor blades in its generating fleet and replacing any blade sets found to have cracks. fpl group is currently working with the manufacturer of the ctcs to determine the root cause of the other two failures in the stationary section of the compressor and how to remediate the issue. in the interim, fpl is planning to proactively replace a portion of the stationary compressor blades it considers to be at higher risk of failure. repairs to all three of the units affected have been completed and the units returned to service. fpl has four firm transportation contracts in place with fgt and one firm transportation contract with gulfstream that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation at its existing units. the four existing fgt contracts expire between 2015 and 2022, while the gulfstream contract expires in 2028. the two contracts expiring in 2015 may be extended by fpl until 2030. to the extent desirable, fpl can also purchase interruptible gas transportation service from fgt and gulfstream based on pipeline availability. fpl has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's gas requirements are purchased under other contracts and in the spot market. in addition, fpl has entered into several long-term agreements for storage capacity and transportation of natural gas from facilities that have not yet begun construction. these agreements range from 12 to 23 years in length and are contingent upon certain events, including approval by the ferc and completion of construction of the facilities in 2008 and 2009. fpl's oil requirements are obtained under short-term contracts and in the spot market. see note 16 - contracts. fpl has, through its joint ownership interest in st. johns river power park (sjrpp) units nos. 1 and 2, long-term coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of the fuel needs for those units. all of the transportation requirements and a portion of the fuel supply needs for scherer unit no. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts. fpl's remaining fuel requirements for these units will be obtained in the spot market. see note 16 - contracts. nuclear operations. fpl owns and operates four nuclear units, two at turkey point and two at st. lucie. fpl has received operating license extensions to operate turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 and st. lucie units nos. 1 and 2 until 2032, 2033, 2036 and 2043, respectively. the nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for approximately 30 days. scheduled nuclear refueling outages by unit are as follows: refueling outage unit most recent next scheduled st. lucie unit no. 1 fall 2005 spring 2007 (a) st. lucie unit no. 2 spring 2006 fall 2007 (b) turkey point unit no. 3 spring 2006 fall 2007 turkey point unit no. 4 fall 2006 spring 2008 ____________________ (a) fpl anticipates replacing incore instrument thimbles during this outage, which is expected to extend the number of days the unit will be removed from service to approximately 50 days. (b) fpl anticipates replacing the reactor vessel head and steam generators during this outage, which is expected to extend the number of days the unit will be removed from service to approximately 85 days. in 2003, the nrc issued an order requiring all pressurized water reactor licensees, including fpl, to perform visual and volumetric inspections of reactor vessel heads at each unit's scheduled refueling outage to identify if degradation such as cracking or corrosion has occurred. in conjunction with the nrc order, fpl has performed visual and volumetric inspections of its nuclear units' reactor vessel heads during their scheduled refueling outages since october 2002. fpl replaced the reactor vessel heads at turkey point unit no. 3, turkey point unit no. 4 and st. lucie unit no. 1 during their scheduled refueling outages in the fall of 2004, spring of 2005 and fall of 2005, respectively, and therefore no further inspections will be required at these units until 2009. the inspections during scheduled refueling outages at st. lucie unit no. 2 in 2003 and 2005 revealed crdm nozzles with cracks, which were repaired during the outages. fpl intends to replace the reactor vessel head at st. lucie unit no. 2 during its next scheduled refueling outage in the fall of 2007. the cost to replace st. lucie unit no. 2's reactor vessel head, including afudc, is included in fpl's estimated capital expenditures below. see management's discussion - results of operations - fpl and note 16 - commitments. st. lucie unit no. 2's steam generators are reaching the end of their useful life. as flaws were identified in individual tubes, they were plugged in order to prevent the tubes from leaking during plant operations. fpl intends to replace the steam generators along with the reactor vessel head at st. lucie unit no. 2 during its next scheduled refueling outage in the fall of 2007. the cost to replace st. lucie unit no. 2's steam generators, including afudc, is included in fpl's estimated capital expenditures below. see 16 - commitments. during 2003, nuclear utilities other than fpl identified that pressurizer heater sleeves made with a particular material (alloy 600) were experiencing penetration cracks and leaks as a result of primary water stress corrosion cracking. as a result, in 2004, the nrc issued a bulletin requesting utilities to identify and inspect all alloy 600 and weld materials in all pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping. due to the amount of time and cost associated with correcting potential leaks, fpl replaced st. lucie unit no. 1's pressurizer during its fall 2005 outage. fpl will begin the repair of st. lucie unit no. 1's non-pressurizer penetrations with alloy 600 weld materials during its fall 2008 outage and expects to complete the repairs by 2010. the st. lucie unit no. 2 pressurizer has 30 heater sleeves as compared to 120 heater sleeves in the st. lucie unit no. 1 pressurizer. accordingly, fpl has decided to repair rather than replace st. lucie unit no. 2' alloy 600 pressurizer heater sleeves during its spring 2009 outage. during st. lucie unit no. 2's next scheduled refueling and steam generator and reactor vessel head replacement outage in the fall of 2007, fpl will inspect the pressurizer heater sleeves and begin repairs of other pressurizer and non-pressurizer penetrations with alloy 600 weld materials. the repairs to st. lucie unit no. 2's other penetrations are scheduled to be completed by 2010. the estimated cost of repairs for the st. lucie units are included in fpl's estimated capital expenditures below. see note 16 - commitments. all pressurizer penetrations and welds at turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 utilize a different material. fpl leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units. see note 1 - nuclear fuel. fpl group and fpl consolidate the lessor entity in accordance with fin 46, "consolidation of variable interest entities", as revised (fin 46(r)). see note 9 - fpl. the contracts for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of fpl's nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from 2008 through 2016. currently, fpl is storing spent fuel on site pending its removal by the doe. under the nuclear waste policy act, the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. through december 2006, fpl has paid approximately $562 million in such fees to the doe's nuclear waste fund. the doe did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the nuclear waste policy act. in 1997, a federal court ruled, in response to petitions filed by utilities, state governments and utility commissions, that the doe could not assert a claim that its delay was unavoidable in any defense against lawsuits by utilities seeking money damages arising out of the doe's failure to perform its obligations. in 1998, fpl filed a lawsuit against the doe seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from fpl's nuclear power plants. the matter is pending. in october 2006, a federal court ruled in another utility's case that the 1997 court decision regarding doe's unavoidable delay defense was not binding on this federal court. an appeal is pending in that case. based on current projections, fpl will lose its ability to store additional spent fuel on site for st. lucie unit no. 1 in 2008, st. lucie unit no. 2 in 2010, turkey point unit no. 3 in 2010 and turkey p oint unit no. 4 in 2012. degradation in a material used in the spent fuel pools at turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 could result in implementation of alternative spent fuel storage options sooner than projected. fpl expects to extend the storage capacity of turkey point unit no. 3 to early 2012 by recovering storage cells in the spent fuel pools that are currently damaged or otherwise unusable. in addition, fpl plans to begin using dry storage casks to store spent fuel at the st. lucie units prior to 2009 and at the turkey point units prior to 2012, which would extend their capability to store spent fuel indefinitely. the cost for the dry storage casks is included in fpl's estimated capital expenditures below. in 2002, the governor of nevada submitted a notice of disapproval to congress regarding president bush's recommendation to develop yucca mountain as a nuclear waste repository. the yucca mountain site is the doe's recommended location to store and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. in 2002, congress overrode the notice of disapproval through a majority vote of both houses and the president signed the joint resolution of congress into law. the state of nevada has initiated legal actions to attempt to block the project. in 2004, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit ruled on a series of challenges to the statutes and regulations established to govern a nuclear waste repository at the yucca mountain site. the court denied all the challenges except for one, regarding an epa rule governing the time period the public would be protected from hypothetical radiation leaks at the yucca mountain repository.&nbsp ; the court's decision will likely result in revisions to the epa's and nrc's licensing rules for yucca mountain and could further delay the licensing process for yucca mountain. in a progress report submitted to congress, the doe office of civilian radioactive waste management stated that the doe plans to submit a license application for a permanent disposal facility for spent nuclear fuel to the nrc by june 20, 2008, and indicated that the best achievable schedule would anticipate commencing initial repository operations in 2017. although the doe has stated that it anticipates that its permanent disposal facility will commence operations in 2017, there is considerable doubt within the utility industry that this schedule will be met. the nrc's regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years prior to the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the extended operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 at the end of its useful life in 2043. see estimated decommissioning cost data in note 1 - decommissioning of nuclear plants, dismantlement of plants and other accrued asset removal costs - fpl. capital expenditures. capital expenditures at fpl include, among other things, the cost for construction or acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet customer demand, as well as capital improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities. fpl's capital expenditures totaled $1.7 billion in 2006 (including afudc of approximately $32 million), $1.8 billion in 2005 (including afudc of approximately $41 million) and $1.4 billion in 2004 (including afudc of approximately $48 million). capital expenditures for 2007 through 2011 are estimated as follows: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 total (millions) generation: (a) new (b) (c) $ 420 $ 720 $ 210 $ 10 $ - $ 1,360 existing 630 600 485 565 425 2,705 transmission and distribution (d) 885 985 1,105 1,055 1,080 5,110 nuclear fuel 105 130 140 170 110 655 general and other 145 160 170 205 205 885 total $ 2,185 $ 2,595 $ 2,110 $ 2,005 $ 1,820 $ 10,715 ____________________ (a) includes afudc of approximately $37 million, $52 million, $53 million and $6 million in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. (b) includes land, generating structures, transmission interconnection and integration, licensing and afudc. (c) excludes capital expenditures of approximately $3.4 billion (approximately $310 million in 2008) for the two ultra super critical pulverized coal generating units for the period from early 2008 (expected siting board approval) through 2011. (d) includes estimated capital costs associated with fpl's storm secure plan. these capital costs are subject to change over time based on, among other things, productivity enhancements and prioritization. these estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary from these estimates. see management's discussion liquidity and capital resources - contractual obligations and planned capital expenditures and note 16 commitments. energy marketing and trading. emt, a division of fpl, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel and electricity sales and purchases. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see retail ratemaking, management's discussion - results of operations - fpl and energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 4. environmental. fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by emerging issues included in the discussion of fpl group's business (see fpl group - environmental). fpl would generally seek recovery under the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. while the final requirements for section 111 of the clean air act for mercury emissions are subject to challenge, it is likely that scherer unit no. 4, st. johns river power park units nos. 1 and 2 and certain coal-fired units from which fpl purchases power will be required to add additional pollution control equipment or purchase emission allowances in order to achieve compliance with the proposed mercury emission limits. in addition, while the final cair requirements are uncertain, it is possible that the fpl generating facilities in florida and georgia may be requ ired to add additional so 2 and nox controls or purchase emissions allowances to meet the compliance requirements of the final rule. furthermore, while the impact of final bart requirements of the clean air visibility rule are uncertain, it is possible that some of fpl's bart eligible units may be required to add additional emissions controls or switch fuels to meet the bart compliance requirements. lastly, the rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act impacts eight of fpl's generating facilities (cape canaveral, cutler, fort myers, lauderdale, port everglades, sanford, riviera and st. lucie); however, the final requirements are uncertain. during 2006, fpl spent approximately $82 million on capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations. fpl's capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $347 million for 2007 through 2009, including approximately $106 million in 2007, and are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in capital expenditures above. electric and magnetic fields. since the 1970s, there has been public, scientific and regulatory attention given to the question of whether emf causes or contributes to adverse health effects. emf are present around electrical facilities, including appliances, power lines, and building wiring. in 1999, the u.s. national institute of environmental health sciences, at the culmination of a five-year federally supported emf research effort, concluded that the scientific evidence suggesting that emf exposures pose any health risk is weak, but cannot be completely discounted. in 2001, the iarc conducted an evaluation of power frequency emf and cancer; it classified power frequency magnetic fields as "possibly carcinogenic" based on an association with childhood leukemia reported in some epidemiology studies. the iarc did not conclude that power frequency emf cause or contribute to the development of childhood leukemia or any other cancer. in 2002, the national institute of environmental health sciences said in a booklet it published on emf: "for most health outcomes, there is no evidence that emf exposures have adverse effects. there is some evidence from epidemiology studies that exposure to power-frequency emf is associated with an increased risk for childho od leukemia. this association is difficult to interpret in the absence of reproducible laboratory evidence or a scientific explanation that links magnetic fields with childhood leukemia." florida has had emf regulations in place for many years, and fpl believes it is in compliance with the fdep regulations regarding emf levels within and at the edge of the rights of way for transmission lines. future changes in the fdep regulations could require additional capital expenditures by fpl for such things as increasing the right of way corridors or relocating or reconfiguring transmission facilities. it is not presently known whether any such expenditures will be required. currently, there are no such changes proposed to the fdep regulations. employees. fpl had approximately 10,400 employees at december 31, 2006. approximately 31% of the employees are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2008. fpl energy operations general. fpl energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group capital, was formed in 1998 to aggregate fpl group's existing competitive energy business. it is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. fpl energy through its subsidiaries currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates domestic electric-generating facilities in wholesale energy markets. fpl energy also provides full energy and capacity requirements services to distribution utilities in certain markets and owns a retail electric provider in texas. fpl energy manages or participates in the management of approximately 95% of its projects, which represent approximately 98% of the net generating capacity in which fpl energy has an ownership interest. at december 31, 2006, fpl energy had ownership interests in operating independent power projects with a net generating capability totaling 13,343 mw (see item 2 - generating facilities). generation capacity spans various regions and is produced utilizing a variety of fuel sources, thereby reducing overall volatility related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio basis. at december 31, 2006, the percentage of capacity by nerc region or power pool was: nerc region/power pool percentage of generation capacity mro/rfc/spp/ercot 42 % nepool/nypp 22 % serc/pjm 21 % wecc 15 % fuel sources for these projects were as follows: fuel source percentage of generation capacity natural gas 49 % wind 30 % nuclear 11 % oil 5 % hydro 3 % other 2 % fpl energy expects its future portfolio capacity growth to come primarily from wind development and from asset acquisitions. fpl energy plans to add a total of at least 1,500 mw of new wind generation over the 2007 and 2008 period, including approximately 450 mw which are currently under construction. in december 2006, fpl energy entered into an agreement to purchase point beach, a two-unit, 1,033 mw nuclear power plant. the transaction is subject to, among other things, the receipt of approvals from various federal and state regulatory agencies. fpl energy expects to close the transaction in the third quarter of 2007. see nuclear operations. fpl energy's capital expenditures and investments totaled approximately $1.8 billion, $0.9 billion and $0.4 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. capital expenditures for 2007 through 2011 are estimated as follows: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 total (millions) wind (a) $ 1,565 $ 1,300 $ 10 $ 5 $ 5 $ 2,885 nuclear (b) 1,140 155 120 165 110 1,690 gas 105 30 15 15 20 185 other 65 40 5 10 10 130 total $ 2,875 $ 1,525 $ 150 $ 195 $ 145 $ 4,890 ____________________ (a) capital expenditures for new wind projects are estimated through 2008, when eligibility for ptcs for new wind projects is scheduled to expire. (b) includes nuclear fuel for seabrook and duane arnold and, in 2007, the pending acquisition of point beach (see nuclear operations). these estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary from these estimates. see management's discussion liquidity and capital resources - contractual obligations and planned capital expenditures and note 16 commitments. during 2006, other companies in the electric industry, including fpl, experienced compressor blade failures in certain ctcs made by a single manufacturer. fpl energy has 19 of these ctcs in its generating fleet. fpl energy is conducting inspections of its rotating compressor blades in its generating fleet and replacing any blade sets found to have cracks. fpl energy is also planning to proactively replace a portion of the stationary compressor blades it considers to be at higher risk of failure. see the discussion at fpl operations - fossil operations. regulation. at december 31, 2006, fpl energy had ownership interests in operating independent power projects that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the holding company act, which represent approximately 96% of fpl energy's net generating capacity. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. fpl energy's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, hydropower, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities. in addition, approximately 4% of fpl energy's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under purpa. fpl energy's qualifying facilities generate electricity from wind, solar, fossil fuels or waste-product combustion. qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among ot her things, many of the provisions of the federal power act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. while projects with qualifying facility and exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. fpl energy continues to evaluate regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. during 2006, revised market rules for capacity were approved in the nepool and pjm regions. california is scheduled to implement a revised market design no earlier than late 2008. ercot is considering adopting a revised market design with potential implementation in 2009. in the california and ercot markets, the final market design is not fully known at this time and fpl energy is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, on its operations resulting from the implementation of such revised market designs. competition. competitive wholesale markets in the united states continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. revenues from electricity sales in these markets vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for fpl energy. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. fpl energy seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. the major markets in which fpl energy operates have shown signs of continued improvement since 2004, such as improved spark spreads and energy prices in ercot and nepool. the combination of new wind projects, expected increase in contribution from merchant assets and asset acquisitions are expected to be the key drivers in supporting fpl energy's growth over the next few years. portfolio by category. fpl energy's assets can be categorized into the following three groups: wind, contracted and merchant. wind assets at december 31, 2006, fpl energy had ownership interests in wind plants with a combined capacity of approximately 4,016 mw (net ownership), of which approximately 77% have long-term contracts with utilities and power marketers predominantly under fixed-price agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2031. the expected output of the remaining 23% is hedged against changes in commodity prices for at least five years. fpl energy operates substantially all of these wind facilities. approximately 93% of fpl energy's net ownership in wind facilities has received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the holding company act. the remaining facilities have qualifying facility status under purpa. fpl energy's wind facilities are located in fifteen states, thereby reducing weather-related performance risk on a portfolio basis. fpl energy plans to add a total of at least 1,500 mw of new wind generation over the 2007 and 2008 period, including approximately 450 mw which are currently under construction. contracted assets - at december 31, 2006, fpl energy had 2,469 mw of contracted assets. the contracted category includes all projects, other than wind, with contracts for substantially all of their output. essentially all of these contracted assets were under power sales contracts with utilities, with contract expiration dates ranging from 2008 to 2020 and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2017. approximately 1,776 mw of this capacity is gas-fired generation. the remaining 693 mw uses a variety of fuels and technologies such as nuclear, waste-to-energy, oil, solar, coal and petroleum coke. as of december 31, 2006, approximately 91% of fpl energy's contracted generating capacity is from power plants that have received exempt wholesale generator status under the holding company act, while the remaining 9% has qualifying facility status under purpa. merchant assets - at december 31, 2006, fpl energy's portfolio of merchant assets includes 6,858 mw of owned nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydro generation, of which 2,700 mw is located in the ercot region, 2,686 mw in the nepool region and 1,472 mw in other regions. the merchant assets include 898 mw of peak generating facilities. merchant assets are plants that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output and therefore require active marketing and hedging. approximately 62% of the merchant assets have gas supply agreements or a combination of gas supply and transportation agreements to provide for on-peak gas requirements. derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) are used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. reducing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk however, primarily counterparty and operational risks . see energy marketing and trading. nuclear operations. fpl energy owns undivided interests in and operates two nuclear power plants, seabrook, a 1,098 mw (net ownership) merchant power plant in new hampshire, and duane arnold, a 424 mw (net ownership) power plant in iowa which sells substantially all of its output under a long-term contract. fpl energy is responsible for all plant operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the plants, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners. see estimated decommissioning cost data in note 1 - decommissioning of nuclear plants, dismantlement of plants and other accrued asset removal costs - fpl energy. in december 2006, fpl energy entered into an agreement to purchase another nuclear power plant, point beach. see the discussion of the point beach transaction below. seabrook completed the second phase of a power uprate in october 2006 which increased fpl energy's net plant output to 1,098 mw. in december 2005, fpl energy obtained nrc approval to extend seabrook's operating license from 2026 to 2030 to recapture the period of non-operation from 1986 to 1990. fpl energy intends to seek approval from the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years. if granted, this approval would extend the term of the nrc operating license for seabrook to 2050. seabrook is periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other modifications. the next refueling outage at seabrook is scheduled for april 2008. in 2003, the nrc issued an order requiring all pressurized water reactor licensees, including seabrook, to perform visual and volumetric inspections of reactor vessel heads at certain scheduled refueling outages to identify if degradation such as cracking or corrosion has occurred. seabrook performed 100% visual and volumetric inspections during its fall 2006 refueling outage, and no degradation was identified. seabrook will be required to perform visual inspections every third refueling outage and volumetric inspections every fourth refueling outage. in 2004, the nrc issued a bulletin requesting utilities to identify and inspect all alloy 600 and weld materials in all pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping. this issue impacts some pressurizer and reactor vessel penetrations at seabrook. in order to meet industry requirements, fpl energy is planning to repair seabrook's pressurizer penetrations with alloy 600 weld materials during its april 2008 outage and begin inspections of the reactor vessel alloy 600 penetrations during the fall 2009 outage. the estimated cost of repairs is included in fpl energy's estimated capital expenditures set forth in general above. based on alloy 600 issues recently identified at another company's nuclear plant, the nrc may mandate that certain nuclear plants, including seabrook, accelerate repairs to their pressurizer penetrations into 2007. accelerated repairs at seabrook would have an adverse effect on fpl energy's 2007 results of operations. in january 2006, fpl energy completed the acquisition of duane arnold from interstate power and light company (ip&amp;l), a subsidiary of alliant energy corporation. in october 2006, duane arnold completed a power uprate which increased fpl energy's net plant output to 424 mw. fpl energy sells substantially all of its share of the output of duane arnold to ip&amp;l under a long-term contract expiring in 2014. fpl energy expects to file for a license extension for duane arnold in 2009, which, if approved, will enable the plant to continue to operate for an additional 20 years beyond its current license expiration of 2014. duane arnold's most recent scheduled refueling outage began in february 2007, and the next one is expected to begin in january 2009. fpl energy's nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2014. see note 16 - contracts. currently, seabrook and duane arnold are storing spent fuel on site pending its removal by the doe. under the nuclear waste policy act, the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. the total cumulative amount of such fees paid to the doe's nuclear waste fund for seabrook and duane arnold, including amounts paid by all joint owners since the start of the plants' operations, is approximately $234 million, of which fpl energy has paid approximately $35 million since the date of the plants' acquisition. fpl energy through its ownership interest in seabrook and duane arno ld is involved in litigation against the doe seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from the seabrook and duane arnold facilities. the matter is pending. for details on the current status of permanent fuel storage with the doe, see fpl operations - nuclear operations. based on current projections, fpl energy will lose its ability to store spent fuel as early as 2009 at seabrook and 2014 at duane arnold. fpl energy is proceeding with a dry cask storage system at seabrook which will be placed into commercial operation prior to 2009, the cost of which is included in fpl energy's estimated capital expenditures set forth in general above. this would allow for all of seabrook's spent fuel to be stored on site, including spent fuel storage through its license extension period of 2050, if granted. duane arnold currently is using both a spent fuel pool and a dry cask storage system and is making plans for additiona l dry cask storage modules to increase on site storage capability beginning in 2009, the estimated cost of which is included in fpl energy's estimated capital expenditures set forth in general above. in december 2006, fpl energy entered into an agreement to purchase point beach, a two-unit, 1,033 mw nuclear power plant located in wisconsin from wisconsin electric power company (wisconsin electric), a subsidiary of wisconsin energy corporation. under the agreement, fpl energy will sell the output of point beach to wisconsin electric under a long-term contract. the duration of the contract will be, at the option of wisconsin electric, either through the current license terms of 2030 for unit 1 and 2033 for unit 2 or for a term of 16 or 17 years from the closing date for units 1 and 2, respectively. fpl energy will assume responsibility for decommissioning the plant. also, upon closing, fpl energy will assume management and operation of point beach. the transaction is subject to, among other things, the receipt of approvals from various federal and state regulatory agencies. fpl energy expects to close the transaction in the third quarter of 2007. energy marketing and trading. pmi, a subsidiary of fpl energy, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. pmi procures natural gas and oil for fpl energy's use in power generation, as well as substantially all of the electricity needs for fpl energy's retail operations in texas, which at december 31, 2006 served approximately 1,000 mw of peak load to approximately 185,000 customers. pmi also sells the output from fpl energy's plants which has not been sold under long-term contracts and purchases replacement power when needed. pmi uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of fpl energy's power generation assets. pmi also provides full energy and capacity requirements services to distribution utilities in certain markets and engag es in energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. full energy and capacity requirements services include load-following services, which require the supplier of energy to vary the quantity delivered based on the load demand needs of the customer, as well as various ancillary services. at december 31, 2006, pmi provided full energy and capacity requirements services totaling approximately 3,500 mw of peak load in the nepool, pjm and ercot markets. the results of pmi's activities are included in fpl energy's operating results. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity, note 1 - energy trading and note 4. environmental. fpl energy is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by emerging issues included in the discussion of fpl group's business (see fpl group - environmental). while the impact of final bart requirements of the clean air visibility rule are uncertain, it is possible that two of fpl energy's bart eligible units located in maine may be required to add additional emissions controls or switch fuels to meet the bart compliance requirements. in addition, pursuant to the rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act, two fpl energy plants (seabrook and an oil-fired plant in maine) will be required to demonstrate that they currently meet, or will meet, the prescribed performance standards for the reduction of impingement and/or entrainment at their cooling water intakes through technology and/or operational measures; however, the final requirements are uncertain. during 2006, fpl energy spent approximately $3 million on capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations. fpl energy's capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $15 million for 2007 through 2009, including approximately $4 million in 2007, and are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in general above. employees. fpl energy had approximately 2,760 employees at december 31, 2006. subsidiaries of fpl energy have collective bargaining agreements with the ibew in maine and iowa, the security police and fire professionals of america (spfpa) in iowa and the utility workers union of america (uwua) in maine, which expire in february 2008, may 2011, july 2012 and december 2008, respectively. as of december 31, 2006, the ibew in maine and iowa, the spfpa and the uwua represented approximately 3%, 6%, 3% and 7%, respectively, of fpl energy's employees. other fpl group operations fpl group's corporate and other segment represents other business activities, primarily fpl fibernet, that are not separately reportable. see note 17. fpl fibernet. fpl fibernet was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of fpl group's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support fpl operations. accordingly, in 2000, fpl's existing fiber-optic lines were transferred to fpl fibernet. fpl fibernet is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. fpl fibernet leases wholesale fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to fpl and other customers, primarily telephone, internet and other telecommunications companies. dark fiber in the florida metropolitan (metro) market is also sold to third parties. fpl fibernet's primary business focus is the florida metro market. metro networks cover miami, ft. lauderdale, west palm beach, tampa, st. petersburg, orlando and jacksonville. fpl fibernet also has a long-haul network within florida that leases bandwidth at wholesale ra tes. at december 31, 2006, fpl fibernet's network consisted of approximately 2,500 route miles, which interconnect major cities throughout florida. in light of recent significant changes in the business climate, fpl fibernet performed an impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2006 and concluded that an impairment charge related to its metro market assets was necessary. the business climate changes include customer consolidations, migration to a more efficient form of networking technology and lack of future benefits to be achieved through competitive pricing, all of which have a negative impact on the value of fpl fibernet's metro market assets. while the metro market business is expected to continue to generate positive cash flows, management's expectation of the rate of future growth in cash flow has been reduced as a result of these business climate changes. accordingly, fpl fibernet recorded an impairment charge of $98 million ($60 million after-tax). at december 31, 2006, fpl group's remaining investment in fpl fibernet totaled approximately $130 million. fpl fibernet invested approximately $14 million during 2006 and plans to invest a total of $57 million over the next five years to meet customers' specific requirements and sustain its fiber-optic network. executive officers of fpl group (a) name age position effective date paul i. cutler 47 treasurer and assistant secretary of fpl group treasurer and assistant secretary of fpl february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 f. mitchell davidson 44 president of fpl energy december 15, 2006 k. michael davis 60 controller and chief accounting officer of fpl group may 13, 1991 vice president, accounting, controller and chief accounting officer of fpl july 1, 1991 moray p. dewhurst 51 vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl group senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl july 17, 2001 july 19, 2001 robert h. escoto 53 vice president, human resources of fpl group assistant secretary of fpl group senior vice president, human resources of fpl assistant secretary of fpl january 25, 2005 november 9, 2004 february 21, 2005 january 25, 2005 lewis hay, iii 51 chief executive officer of fpl group chairman of the board of fpl group chairman of the board and chief executive officer of fpl june 11, 2001 january 1, 2002 january 1, 2002 robert l. mcgrath 53 vice president, engineering, construction &amp; corporate services of fpl group february 21, 2005 senior vice president, engineering, construction &amp; corporate services of fpl february 21, 2005 armando j. olivera 57 president of fpl june 24, 2003 james l. robo 44 president and chief operating officer of fpl group december 15, 2006 antonio rodriguez 64 vice president, power generation division of fpl group senior vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2007 july 1, 1999 john a. stall 52 vice president, nuclear division of fpl group senior vice president, nuclear division of fpl january 1, 2007 june 4, 2001 edward f. tancer 45 vice president &amp; general counsel of fpl group assistant secretary of fpl group senior vice president &amp; general counsel of fpl assistant secretary of fpl february 21, 2005 january 1, 1997 february 21, 2005 january 1, 1997 ____________________ (a) executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his present position for five years or more and his employment history is continuous. the business experience of the executive officers is as follows: mr. cutler was assistant treasurer of fpl group from may 1999 to february 2003. he was assistant treasurer of fpl from may 1997 to february 2003. mr. cutler has served as assistant secretary of fpl group and fpl since december 1997. mr. davidson was senior vice president of business management of fpl energy from march 2005 to december 2006. he was vice president of business management of fpl energy from june 2004 to march 2005. from march 2001 to september 2003, mr. davidson was senior vice president, energy management of duke energy north america (duke) where his primary responsibility was for the overall direction, profitability, growth and risk mitigation for duke's trading business. mr. escoto was vice president, human resources of fpl from march 2004 to february 2005. mr. escoto has served as vice president, human resources of fpl energy since april 2002. prior to that, mr. escoto was director of human resources of fpl. mr. hay was president of fpl group from june 2001 to december 2006. mr. mcgrath was senior vice president, engineering and construction of fpl from november 2002 to february 2005 and treasurer of fpl group and fpl from january 2000 to november 2002. he was also vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl energy from june 2000 to november 2002. mr. olivera was senior vice president, power systems of fpl from july 1999 to june 2003. mr. robo was president of fpl energy from july 2002 to december 2006. he was also vice president, corporate development and stra tegy of fpl group from march 2002 to december 2006. prior to march 2002, mr. robo was president and chief executive officer of ge capital tip, a company that provides trailer and storage equipment services, and ge capital modular space, a supplier of mobile and modular buildings. mr. tancer was associate general counsel of fpl group from april 2003 to february 2005. he was also vice president and general counsel of fpl energy from february 2001 to february 2005. item 1a. risk factors risks relating to fpl group's and fpl's business fpl group and fpl are subject to complex laws and regulations and to changes in laws and regulations as well as changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the energy industry and environmental matters. fpl holds franchise agreements with local municipalities and counties, and must renegotiate expiring agreements. these factors may have a negative impact on the business and results of operations of fpl group and fpl. fpl group and fpl are subject to complex laws and regulations, and to changes in laws or regulations, including the purpa, the holding company act, the federal power act, the atomic energy act of 1954, as amended, the 2005 energy act and certain sections of the florida statutes relating to public utilities, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the ferc, the fpsc and the legislatures and utility commissions of other states in which fpl group has operations, and the nrc, with respect to, among other things, allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, operation of nuclear power facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, operation and construction of transmission facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, decommissioning costs, roe and equity ratio limits, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail wheeling and transmission costs). the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of any and all costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. the regulatory process generally restricts fpl's ability to grow earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels. fpl group and fpl are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes as well as the effect of changes in or additions to applicable statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, climate change, waste management, wildlife mortality, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs. there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future. fpl group and fpl operate in a changing market environment influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation, regulation or restructuring of the energy industry, including deregulation or restructuring of the production and sale of electricity. fpl group and its subsidiaries will need to adapt to these changes and may face increasing competitive pressure. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations could be affected by fpl's ability to renegotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida. the operation and maintenance of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involve significant risks that could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of fpl group and fpl. the operation and maintenance of power generation facilities involve many risks, including, but not limited to, start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, the inability to properly manage or mitigate known equipment defects throughout our generation fleets unless and until such defects are remediated, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes), as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. this could result in lost revenues and/or increased expenses, including, but not limited to, the requirement to purchase power in the market at potentially higher prices to meet contractual obligations. insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the los t revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. in addition to these risks, fpl group's and fpl's nuclear units face certain risks that are unique to the nuclear industry including, but not limited to, the ability to store and/or dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the potential payment of significant retrospective insurance premiums, as well as additional regulatory actions up to and including shutdown of the units stemming from public safety concerns, whether at fpl group's and fpl's plants, or at the plants of other nuclear operators. breakdown or failure of an operating facility of fpl energy may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. the construction of, and capital improvements to, power generation facilities involve substantial risks. should construction or capital improvement efforts be unsuccessful, the results of operations and financial condition of fpl group and fpl could be adversely affected. fpl group's and fpl's ability to successfully and timely complete their power generation facilities currently under construction, those projects yet to begin construction or capital improvements to existing facilities within established budgets is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. should any such efforts be unsuccessful, fpl group and fpl could be subject to additional costs, termination payments under committed contracts, and/or the write-off of their investment in the project or improvement. the use of derivative contracts by fpl group and fpl in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the results of operations of fpl group and fpl. fpl group and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards to manage their commodity and financial market risks. fpl group provides full energy and capacity requirements services and engages in trading activities. fpl group could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, or if a counterparty fails to perform. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. in addition, fpl's use of such instruments could be subject to prudency challenges and if found imprudent, cost recovery could be disallowed by the fpsc. fpl group's competitive energy business is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the control of fpl group, that may reduce the revenues and adversely impact the results of operations and financial condition of fpl group. there are other risks associated with fpl group's competitive energy business. in addition to risks discussed elsewhere, risk factors specifically affecting fpl energy's success in competitive wholesale markets include the ability to efficiently develop and operate generating assets, the successful and timely completion of project restructuring activities, maintenance of the qualifying facility status of certain projects, the price and supply of fuel (including transportation), transmission constraints, competition from new sources of generation, excess generation capacity and demand for power. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity, and there are other financial, counterparty and market risks that are beyond the control of fpl energy. fpl energy's inability or failure to effectively hedge its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty cred it risk or other risk measures could significantly impair fpl group's future financial results. in keeping with industry trends, a portion of fpl energy's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. as a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis, which may affect the volatility of fpl group's financial results. in addition, fpl energy's business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others; if transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, fpl energy's ability to sell and deliver its wholesale power may be limited. fpl group's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. fpl group is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry, in general, as well as the passage of the 2005 energy act. in addition, fpl group may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. because fpl group and fpl rely on access to capital markets, the inability to maintain current credit ratings and access capital markets on favorable terms may limit the ability of fpl group and fpl to grow their businesses and would likely increase interest costs. fpl group and fpl rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. the inability of fpl group, fpl group capital and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets, which, in turn, could impact fpl group's and fpl's ability to grow their businesses and would likely increase their interest costs. customer growth in fpl's service area affects fpl group's and fpl's results of operations. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations are affected by the growth in customer accounts in fpl's service area. customer growth can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in florida, including job and income growth, housing starts and new home prices. customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities at fpl. weather affects fpl group's and fpl's results of operations. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations are affected by changes in the weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities, and can affect the production of electricity at wind and hydro-powered facilities. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations can be affected by the impact of severe weather which can be destructive, causing outages and/or property damage, may affect fuel supply, and could require additional costs to be incurred. at fpl, recovery of these costs is subject to fpsc approval. fpl group and fpl are subject to costs and other effects of legal proceedings as well as changes in or additions to applicable tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws and corporate governance requirements. fpl group and fpl are subject to costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, as well as the effect of new, or changes in, tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws and corporate governance requirements. threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact the operations of fpl group and fpl in unpredictable ways. fpl group and fpl are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets. the effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things, terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit power, the risk of a significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the u.s. economy, delay in economic recovery in the u.s., and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance. the ability of fpl group and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be affected by national, state or local events and company-specific events. fpl group's and fpl's ability to obtain insurance, and the cost of and coverage provided by such insurance, could be affected by national, state or local events as well as company-specific events. fpl group and fpl are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect the businesses and financial condition of fpl group and fpl. fpl group and fpl are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees and work stoppage that could affect the businesses and financial condition of fpl group and fpl. the risks described herein are not the only risks facing fpl group and fpl. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to fpl group or fpl, or that are currently deemed to be immaterial, also may materially adversely affect fpl group's or fpl's business, financial condition and/or future operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity - market risk sensitivity.risk factors 19 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on fpl group's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause fpl group's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of fpl group and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and fpl group and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. 3 part i item 1. business fpl group fpl group has two principal operating subsidiaries, fpl and fpl energy. fpl is a rate-regulated utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy. fpl energy is fpl group's competitive energy subsidiary which produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable fuels. fpl group capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group, holds the capital stock of, or has equity interests in, fpl group's operating subsidiaries, other than fpl, and provides funding for those subsidiaries, including fpl energy. fpl group was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida. at december 31, 2007, fpl group and its subsidiaries employed approximately 14,600 people. for financial information regarding fpl group's business segments, see note 17. environmental. federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air and water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line siting, emf from power lines and substations, oil discharge from transformers, lead paint, asbestos, noise and aesthetics, solid waste, natural resources, wildlife mortality and other environmental matters. compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. environmental laws and regulations are subject to change. the following is a discussion of emerging federal and state initiatives and rules that could potentially affect fpl group. see fpl operations - environmental and fpl energy operations - environmental for a discussi on of potential impacts specific to those entities. climate change - the u.s. congress and certain states and regions are considering several legislative and regulatory proposals that would establish new regulatory requirements and reduction targets for greenhouse gases. based on the most current reference data available from government sources, fpl group is among the lowest emitters of greenhouse gases in the u.s. measured by its rate of emissions to generation in pounds per megawatt-hour. however, these legislative and regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on fpl's and fpl energy's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to fpl group and fpl could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted or specific implementation rules adopted. in anticipation of the potential imposition of greenhouse gas emission limits on the electric industry in the future, fpl group is involved in several climate change initiatives, including, but not limited to, the following: participation in various groups including working with the governor of florida on the governor's action team on energy and climate change, the fdep and the fpsc in addressing executive orders issued in 2007 by the governor of florida (see fpl operations - environmental for additional information); voluntary reporting of its greenhouse gas emissions to the doe under the energy policy act of 1992; voluntary reporting of its greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategy through the carbon disclosure project (an investor-led initiative to identify climate change impacts on publicly-traded companies); participation in the u.s. climate action partnership (an alliance made up of a diverse group of u.s.-based businesses and environmental organizations, which in early 2007 issued a set of principles and recommendations to address global climate change and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions); participation in the clinton global initiative (an organization which seeks to foster shared commitment by individuals, businesses and governments to confront major world issues and achieve real change); and participation in the epa's climate leaders program to reduce greenhouse gas intensity in the united states by 18% by 2012, including reporting of emissions data annually. fpl group has committed to a 2008 target emissions rate reduction of 18% below a 2001 baseline emission rate measured in pounds per megawatt-hour, which it expects to achieve by the end of 2008. at the september 2007 clinton global initiative session, fpl group announced three initiatives aimed at increasing u.s. solar energy output and reducing greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming: (i) plans to invest up to $1.5 billion in new solar generating facilities in florida and california from 2008 to 2014, (ii) plans by fpl to provide enhanced energy management capabilities to its customers and (iii) the launch by fpl energy of a new renewable energy program. see fpl operations - environmental and fpl energy operations - environmental for additional information regarding these initiatives. 4 clean air act mercury/nickel rule - during 2005, the epa determined that new data indicated that nickel emissions from oil-fired units and mercury emissions from coal-fired units should not be regulated under section 112 of the clean air act, which set maximum achievable control technology standards (mact), and as a result the epa published a final rule delisting nickel and mercury from the requirements of regulation under section 112. in lieu of regulation under section 112, the epa issued a final rule (clean air mercury rule) to regulate mercury emissions from coal-fired electric utility steam generating units under section 111 of the clean air act. the mercury and nickel delisting rule, as well as the clean air mercury rule, were challenged by various states and environmental groups. in february 2008, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia vacated both the epa's mercury and nickel del isting rule and the clean air mercury rule. the epa may appeal the decision to the u.s. supreme court, proceed with the mact regulation or pursue a delisting of mercury and nickel under section 112. clean air interstate rule (cair) - in 2005, the epa published a final rule that requires so 2 and nox emissions reductions from electric generating units in 28 states, where the emissions from electric generating units are deemed to be transported to downwind states, allegedly resulting in fine particulate (pm 2.5) and ozone non-attainment. the final rule requires phased reductions in so 2 emissions by 2010 and by 2015, and reductions in nox emissions by 2009 and by 2015, eventually reaching a nationwide reduction of 65% below a 2002 baseline emission rate for each. in the final rule, through the use of modeling data, the states in which fpl facilities are located were determined to be contributors of pm 2.5 and/or ozone production in downwind states. however, fpl group believes that the emissions from most of its florida generating facilities are not affecting the non-attainment sta tus of downwind areas. in 2005, fpl group filed a petition for reconsideration with the epa and a lawsuit in the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia challenging the inclusion of all florida plants in the ozone compliance provisions of the rule and south florida plants in the fine particulate compliance requirements of the rule; and challenging the so 2 and nox allowance allocation provisions in cair. in a separate lawsuit, fpl joined other florida electric generating companies as the florida association of electric utilities to challenge the inclusion of all florida plants in the ozone compliance provisions of the rule and south florida plants in the fine particulate compliance requirements of the rule. in 2006, the epa denied fpl group's and other petitioners' requests to revise the final rule. oral argument is scheduled for march 25, 2008 with a final decision by the appeals court expected later in 2008. clean air visibility rule - in 2005, the epa issued the clean air visibility rule to address regional haze in areas which include certain national park and wilderness areas through the installation of bart for electric generating units. bart eligible units include those built between 1962 and 1977 that have the potential to emit more than 250 tons of visibility-impairing pollution per year. the rule requires states to complete bart determinations by 2008 and allows for a five-year period to implement pollution controls. clean water act section 316(b) - in 2004, the epa issued a rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act to address location, design, construction and capacity of intake structures at existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems. the rule would have required fpl group to demonstrate that it had met or would meet new impingement mortality (the loss of organisms against screens and other exclusion devices) and/or entrainment (the loss of organisms by passing through the cooling water system) reductions by complying with one of several alternatives, including the use of technology and/or operational measures. fpl group has been conducting the necessary studies/analyses and planned to submit solutions for regulatory approval in early 2008. however, in 2007, the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit ruled on a challenge to the rule by a number of environmental groups and six northe astern states. in its ruling, the court eliminated several of the compliance alternatives, including the use of restoration measures, from consideration and remanded the rule to the epa for further rulemaking. as a result of the 2007 court decision, the epa has suspended its rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act. during the period the rule is suspended, the epa has directed its permitting agencies to address section 316(b) compliance based on best professional judgment when issuing permits. the epa is expected to initiate new section 316(b) rulemaking in 2008 to rewrite the rule consistent with the court's decision. website access to sec filings. fpl group and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on fpl group's internet website, www.fplgroup.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. information contained on fpl group's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. 5 fpl operations general. fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925 and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group. fpl supplies electric service to a population of more than 8.7 million throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of florida. during 2007, fpl served approximately 4.5 million customer accounts. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues by customer class was as follows: years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 residential 54 % 54 % 55 % commercial 39 39 37 industrial 3 3 3 other, including deferred or recovered clause revenues, the net change in unbilled revenues, gas, transmission and wholesale sales and customer-related fees 4 4 5 100 % 100 % 100 % regulation. fpl's retail operations provided approximately 99% of fpl's 2007 operating revenues. retail operations are regulated by the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities and other matters. fpl is also subject to regulation by the ferc with respect to certain aspects of its operations, including, but not limited to, the acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy. in addition, fpl's nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. nrc regulations govern the granting of licenses for the construction, operation and retirement of nuclear power plants and subject these plants to continuing review and regulation. retail ratemaking. the underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms. in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and, typically, an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that an allowed roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiations, which occur at irregular intervals at the initiative of fpl, the fpsc , the state of florida office of public counsel or a substantially affected party. in 2005, the fpsc approved a stipulation and settlement agreement regarding fpl's retail base rates (2005 rate agreement), signed by fpl and all of the interveners in its 2005 base rate proceeding. fpl expects the 2005 rate agreement to be in effect through december 31, 2009; thereafter, it shall remain in effect until terminated on the date new retail base rates become effective pursuant to an fpsc order. the 2005 rate agreement replaced a rate agreement that was effective april 15, 2002 through december 31, 2005 (2002 rate agreement). the 2005 rate agreement provides that retail base rates will not increase during the term of the agreement except to allow recovery of the revenue requirements of any power plant approved pursuant to the florida power plant siting act (siting act) that achieves commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate agreement. retail base rates increased on may 1, 2007 when a 1,144 mw natural gas-fired plant at fpl's turkey point site (turkey point unit no. 5) was placed in service. the 2005 rate agreement also continues the revenue sharing mechanism in fpl's 2002 rate agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of certain thresholds will be shared with customers on the basis of two-thirds refunded to customers and one-third retained by fpl. revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second, higher threshold (cap) will be refunded 100% to customers. the revenue sharing threshold and cap are established by increasing the prior year's thr eshold and cap by the sum of the following: (i) the average annual growth rate in retail kwh sales for the ten-year period ending december 31 of the preceding year multiplied by the prior year's retail base rate revenue sharing threshold and cap and (ii) the amount of any incremental base rate increases for power plants approved pursuant to the siting act that achieve commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate agreement. the revenue sharing threshold and cap for 2008 are estimated to be $4,349 million and $4,524 million, respectively. for the year ended december 31, 2007, revenues from retail base operations did not exceed the 2007 thresholds. 6 under the terms of the 2005 rate agreement: (i) fpl's electric property depreciation rates are based upon the comprehensive depreciation studies it filed with the fpsc in march 2005; however, fpl may reduce depreciation by up to $125 million annually which was also permitted under the 2002 rate agreement, (ii) fpl suspended contributions of approximately $79 million per year to its nuclear decommissioning fund beginning in september 2005, (iii) fpl suspended contributions of $20.3 million per year to its storm and property insurance reserve beginning in 2006 and has the ability to recover prudently incurred storm restoration costs, either through securitization provisions pursuant to the florida statutes or through surcharges, and (iv) fpl will be allowed to recover through a cost recovery clause prudently incurred incremental costs associated with complying with an fpsc or ferc order regarding a regional transmission organization. fpl does not have an authorized regulatory roe under the 2005 rate agreement for the purpose of addressing earnings levels. for all other regulatory purposes, fpl has an roe of 11.75%. under the 2005 rate agreement, the revenue sharing mechanism described above is the appropriate and exclusive mechanism to address earnings levels. however, if fpl's regulatory roe, as reported to the fpsc in fpl's monthly earnings surveillance report, falls below 10% during the term of the 2005 rate agreement, fpl may petition the fpsc to amend its base rates. fuel costs are recovered from customers through levelized charges per kwh established under the fuel clause. these charges are calculated annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect the variance of actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the fuel adjustment charges for prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect a projected variance based on actual costs and usage. in 2007, approximately $6.0 billion of costs were recovered through the fuel clause. fpl utilizes a risk management fuel procurement program which was approved by the fpsc at the program's inception. the fpsc reviews the program activities and results for prudence on an annual basis as part of its annual review of fuel costs. the program is intended to reduce the risk of unexpected fuel price volatility by lo cking in fuel prices for a portion of fpl's fuel requirements. see energy marketing and trading, management's discussion - results of operations, note 1 - regulation and note 4. capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause and base rates. in 2007, approximately $526 million of costs were recovered through the capacity clause. costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs totaled approximately $206 million in 2007 and were recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 totaled $24 million in 2007 and were recovered through the environmental clause to the extent not included in base rates. in 2007, the fpsc approved a nuclear cost recovery rule that provides for the recovery of prudently incurred pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to the pretax afudc rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through levelized charges under the capacity clause and for the recovery of construction costs, once the new capacity goes into service, through a base rate increase. as part of the fpsc's approval of the addition of approximately 400 mw of baseload capacity to fpl's existing nuclear units, fpl received approval to recover costs associated with the project through the nuclear cost recovery rule. see nuclear operations below. fpl maintains a funded storm and property insurance reserve. fpl was affected by four hurricanes in 2005 and three hurricanes in 2004 which caused major damage in parts of fpl's service territory. storm restoration costs incurred by fpl during 2005 and 2004 exceeded the amount in the storm and property insurance reserve, resulting in a storm reserve deficiency. in 2007, fpl formed a wholly-owned bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary for the purpose of issuing storm-recovery bonds, pursuant to the securitization provisions of the florida statutes and an fpsc financing order. in may 2007, the fpl subsidiary issued $652 million aggregate principal amount of senior secured bonds (storm-recovery bonds) primarily for the after-tax equivalent of the total of fpl's unrecovered balance of the 2004 storm restoration costs, the 2005 storm restoration costs and approximately $200 million to reestablish fpl's storm and property insurance reserve. the storm-rec overy bonds, including interest and bond issuance costs, are being repaid through a surcharge to retail customers. prior to the issuance of these storm-recovery bonds, fpl had been recovering the 2004 storm restoration costs from retail customers through a storm damage surcharge. see management's discussion - results of operations - fpl and note 1 - securitization. during 2006, fpl introduced an initiative to enhance its electrical grid as a result of heightened hurricane activity and in response to concerns expressed by the community, state leaders and regulators. the estimated capital expenditures associated with this initiative, as well as the fpsc's approved storm preparedness plan (collectively, storm secure &reg; ) for 2008 through 2012 are included in fpl's projected capital expenditures. see capital expenditures below and note 16 - commitments. the estimated costs associated with storm secure, both capital expenditures and o&amp;m expenses, are subject to change over time based on, among other things, productivity enhancements and prioritization. in june 2007, the fpsc denied fpl's need petition for two ultra super critical pulverized coal generating units in glades county, florida. in july 2007, fpl filed a petition with the fpsc requesting authorization to defer, until the next retail base rate proceeding, approximately $35 million of preconstruction costs associated with the coal units, with amortization over a five-year period beginning when new base rates are implemented. these costs are currently reflected in other assets on fpl group's and fpl's consolidated balance sheets. any portion of these costs not approved for recovery would be expensed. a decision is expected in april 2008. 7 the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. such costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. competition. fpl currently holds 176 franchise agreements to provide electric service in various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2037. of the 176 franchise agreements, five expire in 2008, eight expire in 2009 and 163 expire during the period 2010 through 2037. negotiations are ongoing to renew franchises with upcoming expirations. fpl considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. fpl currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. the ferc has jurisdiction over potential changes that could affect competition in wholesale transactions. in 2007, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of fpl's total operating revenues. various states, other than florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the retail electric industry in florida in the near future. if the basis of regulation for some or all of fpl's business changes from cost-based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators spec ify an alternative means of recovery or refund. further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. see management's discussion - critical accounting policies and estimates - regulatory accounting. the fpsc promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam generating capacity by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, such as fpl, to issue an rfp. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generation capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the power purchase agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generation capacity. see fossil operations below regarding an rfp for additional power resources. effective february 2007, the fpsc eliminated the requirement for utilities to issue an rfp for new nuc lear power plants sited after june 2006. see nuclear operations below regarding a need petition fpl filed with the fpsc for two additional nuclear units. environmental. fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by emerging issues included in the discussion of fpl group's business (see fpl group - environmental). below is a discussion of the potential impact of these issues on fpl's business. clean air act mercury/nickel rule - depending on the epa's response to the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia's february 2008 decision, it is possible that certain fpl oil-fired units, scherer unit no. 4, st. johns river power park (sjrpp) units nos. 1 and 2 and certain coal-fired units from which fpl purchases power will be required to add additional pollution control equipment. fpl cannot predict what the epa's response to the court ruling may be, or the outcome of future pending regulation that may result from this court ruling. cair - while the final cair requirements are uncertain, it is possible that the fpl generating facilities in florida and georgia may be required to add additional so 2 and/or nox controls or purchase emissions allowances to meet the compliance requirements of the final rule. clean air visibility rule - based on fpl's initial bart evaluation, turkey point fossil units nos. 1 and 2 would be affected, and, while the impact of the final bart requirements of the clean air visibility rule are uncertain, these units may be required to add additional emissions controls or switch fuels to meet the bart compliance requirements. in 2007, the fdep began the process to expand the population of units covered under the "reasonable further progress" provision of the clear air visibility rule in an effort to reduce emissions of so 2 in areas which include certain national park and wilderness areas. the provision requires that control measures be in place by 2017. six of fpl's generating facilities are affected under the reasonable further progress provision (manatee units nos. 1 and 2, port everglades units nos. 3 and 4 and turkey point fossil units nos. 1 and 2). while the final requirements of the reasonable fu rther progress provision are uncertain, it is possible that these units may be required to add additional emission controls or switch fuels to meet the provision's emissions requirements. clean water act section 316(b) - as a result of a decision by the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit eliminating several compliance alternatives contained in the epa rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act, additional rulemaking by the epa could impact eight of fpl's generating facilities (cape canaveral, cutler, fort myers, lauderdale, port everglades, sanford, riviera and st. lucie). fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. 8 in july 2007, the governor of florida issued three executive orders aimed at reducing florida greenhouse gas emissions and improving florida's energy efficiency. the orders state, among other things, that florida utilities will be required to reduce emissions to 2000 levels by 2017; to 1990 levels by 2025; and to 20 percent of 1990 levels by 2050, and that the fpsc should begin the process of adopting a renewable portfolio standard that would require utilities to produce at least 20 percent of their generation from renewable sources, with an emphasis on wind and solar energy. the executive orders are expected to be implemented through rulemaking and/or legislation. the final requirements and their impact on fpl and fpl group cannot be determined at this time. in an effort to increase solar energy output and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in florida, fpl has announced plans to build approximately 300 mw of solar generating facilities in florida. fpl is evaluating a new solar technology, and intends to initially construct a 10 mw facility, with expansion of the project to a 300 mw facility subject to the receipt of regulatory and other approvals as well as the technology meeting agreed-upon cost and technical specifications. fpl has also announced plans to invest up to $500 million from 2008 to 2013 for an advanced metering initiative that will provide enhanced energy management capabilities to its customers and enable it to develop better energy management programs. if the advanced metering initiative is proven successful in small geographic areas, it is expected to be broadened to cover fpl's service territory. during 2007, fpl spent approximately $80 million on capital additions to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations. fpl's capital expenditures to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $619 million for 2008 through 2010, including approximately $189 million in 2008, and are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in capital expenditures below. system capability and load. at december 31, 2007, fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 25,100 mw, of which 22,135 mw were from fpl-owned facilities (see item 2 - generating facilities) and 2,965 mw were available through purchased power contracts (see note 16 - contracts). fpl's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2008 is approximately 20.5%. this reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of output from fpl's generating units, purchased power contracts and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of load management, which was estimated to be capable of reducing demand by 1,668 mw at december 31, 2007. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. howe ver, customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. the highest peak fpl has served to date was 22,361 mw, which occurred on august 17, 2005. fpl had adequate resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand. see fossil operations and nuclear operations below regarding additional capacity currently under construction. fuel mix. fpl's generating plants use a variety of fuels. the diverse fuel options, along with purchased power, enable fpl to shift between sources of generation to achieve a more economical fuel mix. see fossil operations, nuclear operations and item 2 - generating facilities. fpl's 2007 fuel mix based on kwh produced was as follows: fuel source percentage of kwh produced natural gas 52 % nuclear 19 % purchased power 15 % oil 8 % coal 6 % fossil operations. fpl owns and operates 83 units that utilize fossil fuels such as natural gas and/or oil, and has a joint-ownership interest in three coal units. fpl's fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of mild weather. fpl is currently constructing two natural gas-fired combined-cycle units of approximately 1,220 mw each at its west county energy center in western palm beach county, florida, which are expected to be in service by mid-2009 and 2010 at an estimated total cost of approximately $1.3 billion (including afudc). the costs of the two new units yet to be incurred as of december 31, 2007 are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in capital expenditures below. see note 16 - commitments. in december 2007, fpl issued an rfp for additional power resources beginning in 2011. &nbsp ;fpl's self-build approach calls for adding a third natural gas-fired combined-cycle generating unit of approximately 1,220 mw to its west county energy center that would be operational in 2011. responses to the rfp are being evaluated against fpl's self-build approach. by mid-march 2008, fpl will select the alternative determined to be the best and most cost-effective way to meet customers' needs. 9 since june 2006, fpl has experienced different types of compressor blade failures in three combustion turbine compressors (ctcs) at two of its fossil generating plants, resulting in significant damage to the combustion turbines. fpl has 32 of this type of ctcs in its generating fleet, which were all made by the same manufacturer. other companies in the electric industry have reported similar failures. the manufacturer of the ctcs has determined the root cause of the first failure experienced by fpl involving a rotating blade and a remedy is expected to be available by 2009. in the interim, fpl is conducting inspections of all rotating compressor blades in its generating fleet and replacing any blade sets found to have cracks. fpl group is currently working with the manufacturer of the ctcs to determine the root cause of the other two failures in the stationary section of the compressor and how to remediate the issue. in the interim, fpl proact ively replaced a portion of the stationary compressor blades it considers to be at higher risk of failure. repairs to all three ctcs affected have been completed and the ctcs returned to service. fpl has four firm transportation contracts in place with fgt and one firm transportation contract with gulfstream that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation at its existing units. the four existing fgt contracts expire between 2015 and 2022, while the gulfstream contract expires in 2028. the two contracts expiring in 2015 may be extended by fpl until 2030. to the extent desirable, fpl can also purchase interruptible gas transportation service from fgt and gulfstream based on pipeline availability. fpl has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's gas requirements is purchased under other contracts and in the spot market. fpl has a long-term agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2013. in addition, fpl has entered into several long-term agreeme nts for storage capacity and transportation of natural gas from facilities that have not yet begun, or if begun have not yet completed, construction. these agreements range from 12 to 25 years in length and contain firm commitments by fpl totaling up to approximately $289 million annually or $6.3 billion over the terms of the agreements. these firm commitments are contingent upon the occurrence of certain events, including approval by the ferc and completion of construction of the facilities in mid-2008 and 2011. see note 16 - contracts. fpl's oil requirements are obtained under short-term contracts and in the spot market. fpl has, through its joint ownership interest in sjrpp units nos. 1 and 2, a coal supply and transportation contract for all of the 2008 fuel needs and a portion of the 2009 and 2010 fuel needs for those units. all of the transportation requirements and a portion of the coal supply needs for scherer unit no. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts. fpl's remaining fuel requirements for these units will be obtained in the spot market. see note 16 - contracts. nuclear operations. fpl owns, or has undivided interests in, and operates four nuclear units, two at turkey point and two at st. lucie, with a total net generating capability of 2,939 mw. the nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for approximately 30 days. the following table summarizes the extended operating license expiration dates and next scheduled refueling outage dates for fpl's nuclear units: facility unit net capability (mw) extended operating license expiration dates next scheduled refueling outage st. lucie 1 839 2036 october 2008 st. lucie 2 714 2043 april 2009 turkey point 3 693 2032 march 2009 turkey point 4 693 2033 march 2008 fpl is in the process of adding approximately 400 mw of baseload capacity at its existing nuclear units at st. lucie and turkey point, which additional capacity is projected to be in service by the end of 2012 at an estimated total cost of approximately $1.8 billion. the construction costs of the 400 mw of baseload capacity yet to be incurred as of december 31, 2007 are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in capital expenditures below. see note 16 - commitments. in october 2007, fpl filed a need petition with the fpsc for two additional nuclear units totaling between 2,200 mw and 3,040 mw of baseload capacity at its turkey point site, with projected in-service dates between 2018 and 2020. an fpsc decision is expected in march 2008. additional approvals from other regulatory agencies will be required later in the process. in 2004, fpl joined nustart energy development llc (nustart), a consortium of ten energy companies that was formed for the purpose of developing a construction and operating license to build a new nuclear facility under the doe's nuclear power 2010 initiative. as of december 31, 2007, fpl's investment in nustart was not significant. 10 during 2003, nuclear utilities other than fpl identified pressurizer heater sleeves made with a particular material (alloy 600) that were experiencing penetration cracks and leaks as a result of primary water stress corrosion cracking. as a result, in 2004, the nrc issued a bulletin requesting utilities to identify and inspect all alloy 600 and weld materials in all pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping. due to the amount of time and cost associated with correcting potential leaks, fpl replaced st. lucie unit no. 1's pressurizer during its fall 2005 outage. fpl will begin the modification of st. lucie unit no. 1's non-pressurizer penetrations that have alloy 600 weld materials during its fall 2008 outage and expects to complete the modifications by 2010. the st. lucie unit no. 2 pressurizer has 30 heater sleeves as compared to 120 heater sleeves in the st. lucie unit no. 1 pressurizer. accordingly, fpl has decided to modify rather than replace st. lucie unit no. 2's alloy 600 pressurizer heater sleeves during its spring 2009 outage. during st. lucie unit no. 2's scheduled refueling outage in the fall of 2007, fpl inspected the pressurizer heater sleeves and began modifications of other pressurizer and non-pressurizer penetrations that have alloy 600 weld materials. the modifications to st. lucie unit no. 2's other penetrations are scheduled to be completed by 2010. the estimated cost of modifications for the st. lucie units is included in fpl's estimated capital expenditures below. see note 16 - commitments. all pressurizer penetrations and welds at turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 utilize a different material. fpl leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units. see note 1 - nuclear fuel. fpl group and fpl consolidate the lessor entity in accordance with fin 46, "consolidation of variable interest entities," as revised (fin 46(r)). see note 9 - fpl. the contracts for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of fpl's nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from 2008 through 2016. under the nuclear waste policy act of 1982 (nwpa), the doe is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. as required by the nwpa, fpl is a party to contracts with the doe to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its turkey point and st. lucie nuclear units. the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on curren t generation from nuclear power plants. through december 2007, fpl has paid approximately $584 million in such fees to the doe's nuclear waste fund. the doe did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the nwpa. in 1997, a federal court ruled, in response to petitions filed by utilities, state governments and utility commissions, that the doe could not assert a claim that its delay was unavoidable in any defense against lawsuits by utilities seeking money damages arising out of the doe's failure to perform its obligations. in 1998, fpl filed a lawsuit against the doe seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from fpl's nuclear power plants. the matter is pending. in october 2006, a federal court ruled in another utility's case that the 1997 court decision regarding doe's unavoidable delay defense was not binding on this federal court. an appeal is pending in that c ase. the doe has indicated it is planning to file a license application for a permanent disposal facility for spent nuclear fuel with the nrc by mid-2008. however, it is uncertain when a permanent disposal facility will be constructed and when it would be ready to begin receiving spent nuclear fuel shipments. fpl currently stores all spent nuclear fuel generated by its nuclear generating facilities in on site storage pools. these spent nuclear fuel storage pools do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective units. fpl plans to begin using dry storage casks before loss of full core reserve at each of its nuclear units to store spent nuclear fuel, which would extend their capability to store spent fuel indefinitely. the following table summarizes the current status of fpl's on site spent fuel storage: facility unit date for loss of full core reserve (a) date dry storage casks are expected to be in use (b) st. lucie 1 2008 2008 st. lucie 2 2010 2009 turkey point 3 2010 (c) 2011 turkey point 4 2012 (c) 2011 ____________________ (a) represents when the on site storage pool will no longer have sufficient space to receive a full complement of fuel from the reactor core. (b) cost for the dry storage casks is included in fpl's estimated capital expenditures set forth in capital expenditures below. (c) degradation in a material used in the spent fuel pools could result in implementation of alternative spent fuel storage options sooner than projected. fpl expects to extend the storage capacity of turkey point unit no. 3 to early 2012 by recovering storage cells in the spent fuel pools that are currently damaged or otherwise unusable. the nrc's regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years prior to the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the extended operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 at the end of its useful life in 2043. see estimated decommissioning cost data in note 1 - decommissioning of nuclear plants, dismantlement of plants and other accrued asset removal costs - fpl. energy marketing and trading. emt, a division of fpl, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards, to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel and electricity sales and purchases. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see retail ratemaking, management's discussion - results of operations - fpl and energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 4. 11 capital expenditures. capital expenditures at fpl include, among other things, the cost for construction or acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet customer demand, as well as capital improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities. fpl's capital expenditures totaled $1.9 billion in 2007 (including afudc of approximately $36 million), $1.7 billion in 2006 (including afudc of approximately $32 million) and $1.8 billion in 2005 (including afudc of approximately $41 million). at december 31, 2007, planned capital expenditures for 2008 through 2012 were estimated as follows: 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 total (millions) generation: (a) new (b) (c) $ 865 $ 340 $ 5 $ - $ - $ 1,210 existing 780 1,015 1,115 895 710 4,515 transmission and distribution (d) 915 1,080 1,120 1,160 1,130 5,405 nuclear fuel 125 165 200 175 195 860 general and other 150 150 175 165 165 805 total $ 2,835 $ 2,750 $ 2,615 $ 2,395 $ 2,200 $ 12,795 ____________________ (a) includes afudc of approximately $54 million and $55 million in 2008 and 2009, respectively. (b) includes land, generating structures, transmission interconnection and integration, licensing and afudc. (c) excludes essentially all estimated capital costs associated with fpl's announced plan to invest in solar generating facilities (see fpl operations - environmental). also excludes capital expenditures for two proposed nuclear units at fpl's turkey point site (see fpl operations - nuclear operations). these costs are not included in the table above because they are subject to, among other things, various regulatory and other approvals, as well as the solar generating facilities meeting certain performance standards on a smaller scale. (d) includes estimated capital costs associated with storm secure. these capital costs are subject to change over time based on, among other things, productivity enhancements and prioritization. these estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary from these estimates. see management's discussion - liquidity and capital resources - contractual obligations and planned capital expenditures and note 16 - commitments. electric and magnetic fields. emf are present around electrical facilities, including, but not limited to, appliances, power lines and building wiring. since the 1970s, there has been public, scientific and regulatory attention given to the question of whether emf causes or contributes to adverse health effects. u.s. and international scientific organizations have evaluated the emf research. their reviews have generally concluded that while some epidemiology studies report an association with childhood leukemia, controlled laboratory studies do not support that association and the scientific studies overall have not demonstrated that emf cause or contribute to any type of cancer or other disease. the fdep established emf standards for electricity facilities in 1989. the fdep regularly reviews the emf science and has not made any changes in the state's emf standards. fpl facilities comply with the fdep standards. future changes in the fdep regulations could require additional capital expenditures by fpl for such things as increasing the width of right of ways or relocating or reconfiguring transmission facilities. it is not presently known whether any such expenditures will be required. currently, there are no such changes proposed to the fdep regulations. employees. fpl had approximately 10,500 employees at december 31, 2007. approximately 32% of the employees are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2008. fpl energy operations general. fpl energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group capital, was formed in 1998 to aggregate fpl group's existing competitive energy business. it is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. through its subsidiaries, fpl energy currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates domestic electric-generating facilities in wholesale energy markets. fpl energy also provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and owns a retail electric provider based in texas. fpl energy manages or participates in the management of approximately 95% of its projects, which represent approximately 99% of the net generating capacity in which fpl energy has an ownership interest. at december 31, 2007, fpl energy had ownership interests in operating independent power projects with a net generating capability totaling 15,543 mw (see item 2 - generating facilities). generation capacity spans various regions and is produced utilizing a variety of fuel sources, thereby reducing overall volatility related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio basis. at december 31, 2007, the percentage of capacity by geographic region was: geographic region percentage of generation capacity central 47 % northeast 19 % mid-atlantic 18 % west 16 % 12 fuel sources for these projects were as follows: fuel source percentage of generation capacity natural gas 42 % wind 33 % nuclear 16 % oil 5 % hydro 2 % other 2 % fpl energy seeks to expand its portfolio through project development and acquisitions where economic prospects are attractive. fpl energy expects its future portfolio capacity growth to come primarily from wind and solar development and from asset acquisitions. fpl energy plans to add a total of 8,000 mw - 10,000 mw of new wind generation over the 2007 - 2012 period, of which 1,064 mw were added in 2007. fpl energy expects to add at least 1,100 mw in 2008, of which approximately 700 mw are under construction. in addition, fpl energy intends to pursue opportunities for new solar generating facilities. the wind and solar expansions are subject to, among other things, continued public policy support. fpl energy's capital expenditures and investments totaled approximately $3.1 billion, $1.8 billion and $0.9 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. at december 31, 2007, planned capital expenditures for 2008 through 2012 were estimated as follows: 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 total (millions) wind (a) $ 2,085 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 2,105 nuclear (b) 280 345 375 305 250 1,555 gas 80 95 115 35 25 350 other 45 40 25 20 20 150 total $ 2,490 $ 485 $ 520 $ 365 $ 300 $ 4,160 ____________________ (a) capital expenditures for new wind projects are estimated through 2008, when eligibility for ptcs for new wind projects is scheduled to expire. fpl energy expects to add approximately 1,500 to 2,000 mw of new wind generation per year from 2009 to 2012, subject to, among other things, continued public policy support, the cost of which is estimated to be approximately $3 billion for 2009 and $4 billion to $5 billion in each of 2010, 2011 and 2012. (b) includes nuclear fuel. these estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary from these estimates. see management's discussion - liquidity and capital resources - contractual obligations and planned capital expenditures and note 16 - commitments. additionally, fpl energy through its wholly-owned subsidiary, lone star transmission, llc, has proposed to build, own and operate a 180 to 200 mile, high voltage, direct current, open access transmission line located between west texas and the dallas/fort worth area with a capacity of 2,000 mw. the construction of the transmission line is contingent upon, among other things, receipt of all applicable regulatory approvals. the estimated cost of the transmission line is expected to range from $635 million to $655 million. due to the contingencies discussed above (including their impact on the timing of construction), these estimated costs are not included in the capital expenditures table above. during 2006, other companies in the electric industry, including fpl, experienced different types of compressor blade failures in certain ctcs made by a single manufacturer. fpl energy has 19 of these ctcs in its generating fleet. fpl energy is conducting inspections of its rotating compressor blades in its generating fleet and replacing any blade sets found to have cracks. fpl energy proactively replaced a portion of the stationary compressor blades it considered to be at higher risk of failure. see the discussion at fpl operations - fossil operations. regulation. at december 31, 2007, fpl energy had ownership interests in operating independent power projects that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the holding company act, which represent approximately 96% of fpl energy's net generating capacity. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. fpl energy's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, hydropower, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities. in addition, approximately 4% of fpl energy's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under purpa. fpl energy's qualifying facilities generate electricity from wind, solar, fossil fuels or waste-product combustion. qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among ot her things, many of the provisions of the federal power act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. while projects with qualifying facility and exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. 13 each of the markets in which fpl energy operates is subject to regulation and specific rules. fpl energy continues to evaluate regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. during 2006, revised market rules for capacity were approved in the nepool and pjm regions. california is scheduled to implement a locational marginal price (lmp) market design in mid- to late 2008. ercot is also implementing an lmp market design currently scheduled to be implemented in december 2008. in the california and ercot markets, the final market design is not fully known at this time and fpl energy is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, on its operations resulting from the implementation of the anticipated revised market designs. competition. competitive wholesale markets in the united states continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. revenues from electricity sales in these markets vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind, solar and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for fpl energy. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. fpl energy seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. the major markets in which fpl energy operates have shown signs of continued improvement since 2004, such as improved spark spreads and energy prices in the ercot and nepool regions. the combination of new wind projects, expected increase in contribution from merchant assets and asset acquisitions are expected to be the key drivers supporting fpl energy's growth over the next few years. environmental. fpl energy is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by emerging issues included in the discussion of fpl group's business (see fpl group - environmental). below is a discussion of the potential impact of these issues on fpl energy's business. clean air act mercury/nickel rule - depending on the epa's response to the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia's february 2008 decision, it is possible that three of fpl energy's oil-fired units in maine will be required to add additional pollution control equipment. clean air visibility rule - while the impact of final bart requirements of the clean air visibility rule are uncertain, it is possible that one of fpl energy's bart eligible units located in maine may be required to add additional emissions controls or switch fuels to meet the bart compliance requirements. clean water act section 316(b) - as a result of a decision by the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit eliminating several compliance alternatives contained in the epa rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act, additional rulemaking by the epa could impact three fpl energy plants (seabrook, point beach and an oil-fired plant in maine). fpl energy's plants operate in many states and regions that are in the process of developing legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including, but not limited to, the following: the regional greenhouse gas initiative (rggi) is a greenhouse gas reduction initiative whereby ten northeast and mid-atlantic member states have established a cap-and-trade program (a system by which affected generators buy and trade allowances under a set cap) for covered electric generating units in connecticut, delaware, maine, new hampshire, new jersey, new york, vermont, maryland, massachusetts and rhode island. rggi members have agreed to stabilize power plant co 2 emissions at 2005 levels by 2015 and to further reduce the sector's emissions another 10% by 2019. the rggi greenhouse gas reduction requirements will affect 12 fpl energy fossil electric generating units, requiring those electric generating units to reduce emissions or to acquire co 2 allowances for emissions of co 2 beginning in 2009. though most states in rggi have not completed enacting their legislation or rulemaking, it is anticipated that fpl energy will need to participate in co 2 emissions allowance auctions beginning in mid-2008. the western climate initiative is a greenhouse gas reduction initiative with a goal of reducing co 2 emissions by 15% below 2005 levels by 2020 for participants (arizona, california, oregon, new mexico, washington and utah, as well as british colombia and manitoba, canada). the midwestern greenhouse gas reduction accord (mggra) is an initiative to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through the establishment of targets for greenhouse gas reductions and the development of a cap-and-trade system. participants in mggra are illinois, iowa, kansas, michigan, minnesota, wisconsin and manitoba. california greenhouse gas regulation - california has enacted legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the state to 1990 emissions levels by 2020. pursuant to the legislation, the california air resources board must implement multi-sector greenhouse gas reduction measures by january 1, 2012. 14 the final requirements to be enacted in connection with these initiatives are uncertain and the financial and operational impacts cannot be determined at this time. however, fpl energy's portfolio in these regions is heavily weighted toward non-co 2 emitting and low co 2 emitting generation sources (wind, hydro, solar, nuclear and natural gas). to support the u.s. effort to increase solar energy output and reduce co 2 emissions, fpl energy plans to invest in new solar generating facilities. in addition, fpl energy has announced plans to launch a new renewable energy program in 2008 including a new consumer education program and new products that could increase renewable resources. the revenue generated from this program will be used to develop renewable energy sources. during 2007, fpl energy spent approximately $8 million on capital additions to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations. fpl energy's capital additions to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $7 million for 2008 through 2010, including approximately $5 million in 2008, and are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in general above. portfolio by category. fpl energy's assets can be categorized into the following three groups: wind, non-wind contracted and merchant. wind assets - at december 31, 2007, fpl energy had ownership interests in wind plants with a combined capacity of approximately 5,077 mw (net ownership), of which approximately 74% have long-term contracts with utilities and power marketers predominantly under fixed-price agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2032. the expected output of the remaining 26% is substantially hedged against changes in commodity prices for at least five years. fpl energy operates substantially all of these wind facilities. approximately 93% of fpl energy's net ownership in wind facilities has received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the holding company act. the remaining facilities have qualifying facility status under purpa. fpl energy's wind facilities are located in 16 states. fpl energy expects to add at least 1,100 mw of new wind generation in 2008 , of which approximately 700 mw are under construction. contracted assets - at december 31, 2007, fpl energy had 3,542 mw of non-wind contracted assets. the contracted category includes all projects, other than wind, with contracts for substantially all of their output. essentially all of these contracted assets were under power sales contracts with utilities, with contract expiration dates ranging from 2008 to 2033 and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2008 to 2017. approximately 1,825 mw of this capacity is gas-fired generation. the remaining 1,717 mw uses a variety of fuels and technologies such as nuclear, waste-to-energy, oil, solar, coal and petroleum coke. as of december 31, 2007, approximately 92% of fpl energy's contracted generating capacity is from power plants that have received exempt wholesale generator status under the holding company act, while the remaining 8% has qualifying facility status under purpa. merchant assets - at december 31, 2007, fpl energy's portfolio of merchant assets includes 6,924 mw of owned nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydro generation, of which 2,700 mw is located in the ercot region, 2,752 mw in the nepool region and 1,472 mw in other regions. the merchant assets include 965 mw of peak generating facilities. merchant assets are plants that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output and therefore require active marketing and hedging. approximately 62% (based on net mw capability) of the natural gas fueled merchant assets have gas supply agreements or a combination of gas supply and transportation agreements to provide for on-peak gas requirements. derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) are used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, prim arily counterparty and operational risks. see energy marketing and trading below. nuclear operations. fpl energy wholly owns, or has undivided interests in, three nuclear power plants with a total net generating capability of 2,545 mw. fpl energy is responsible for all plant operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the plants, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners. see estimated decommissioning cost data in note 1 - decommissioning of nuclear plants, dismantlement of plants and other accrued asset removal costs - fpl energy. the nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other modifications. the following table summarizes information related to fpl energy's nuclear units. facility location net capability (mw) portfolio category current operating license expiration dates next scheduled refueling outage seabrook new hampshire 1,098 merchant 2030 (a) april 2008 duane arnold iowa 424 contracted (b) 2014 (c) january 2009 point beach unit 1 wisconsin 509 contracted (d) 2030 october 2008 point beach unit 2 wisconsin 514 contracted (d) 2033 april 2008 _____________________ (a) fpl energy intends to seek approval from the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years. (b) fpl energy sells substantially all of its share of the output of duane arnold under a long-term contract expiring in 2014. (c) in 2009, fpl energy intends to seek approval from the nrc to renew duane arnold's operating license for an additional 20 years. (d) fpl energy sells 100% of the output of point beach unit 1 and unit 2 under a long-term contract through the current license terms. 15 in 2004, the nrc issued a bulletin requesting utilities to identify and inspect all alloy 600 and weld materials in all pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping. this issue impacts some pressurizer and reactor vessel penetrations at seabrook. in order to meet industry requirements, fpl energy is planning to modify seabrook's pressurizer penetrations that have alloy 600 weld materials during its april 2008 outage and begin inspections of the reactor vessel alloy 600 penetrations during the fall 2009 outage. the estimated cost of modifications is included in fpl energy's estimated capital expenditures set forth in general above. all pressurizer penetrations at point beach units 1 and 2 utilize a different material except for the point beach unit 2 steam generator nozzles, which have already been modified to address the degradation concern. additionally, duane arnold is not affected by this issue as it is a boiling water reactor. fpl energy's nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from 2008 to 2018. see note 16 - contracts. under the nwpa, the doe is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. as required by the nwpa, subsidiaries of fpl energy are parties to contracts with the doe to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its seabrook, duane arnold and point beach nuclear units. the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. the total cumulative amount of such fees paid to the doe's nuclear waste fund for seabrook, duane arnold and point beach, including amounts paid by all joint owners, since the start of the plants' operations through december 2007, is approximately $468 million, of which fpl energy has paid approximately $46 million since the date of the plants' acquisition. fpl energy, through its ownership interest in seabrook, duane arnold and point beach, is involved in litigation against the doe seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from the seabrook, duane arnold and point beach facilities. the matter is pending. the doe has indicated it is planning to file a license application for a permanent disposal facility for spent nuclear fuel with the nrc by mid-2008. however, it is uncertain when a permanent disposal facility will be constructed and when it would be ready to begin receiving spent nuclear fuel shipments. based on current projections, fpl energy will lose its ability to store spent fuel as early as 2009 at seabrook, 2014 at duane arnold and 2024 at point beach. fpl energy is proceeding with a dry cask storage system at seabrook which will be placed into commercial operation in 2008, the cost of which is included in fpl energy's estimated capital expenditures set forth in general above. this would allow for all of seabrook's spent fuel to be stored on site, including spent fuel storage through its license extension period of 2050, if granted. duane arnold currently is using both a spent fuel pool and a dry cask storage system and is making plans for additional dry cask storage modules to increase on site storage capability beginning in 2009, the estimated cost of which is included in fpl energy's estimated capital expenditures set forth in general above. point beach currently is using both a spent fuel pool and a dry cask storage system. energy marketing and trading. pmi, a subsidiary of fpl energy, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. its primary role is to manage the commodity risk of fpl energy's portfolio and to sell the output from fpl energy's plants that has not been sold under long-term contracts. pmi procures natural gas and oil for fpl energy's use in power generation, as well as substantially all of the electricity needs for fpl energy's retail operations conducted primarily in texas, which at december 31, 2007 served approximately 1,000 mw of peak load to approximately 158,600 customers. pmi uses derivative instruments such as swaps, options and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of fpl energy's power generation assets. pmi also provides full energy and capacity requirements services primaril y to distribution utilities in certain markets and engages in energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. full energy and capacity requirements services include load-following services, which require the supplier of energy to vary the quantity delivered based on the load demand needs of the customer, as well as various ancillary services. at december 31, 2007, pmi provided full energy and capacity requirements services totaling approximately 3,500 mw of peak load in the nepool, pjm and ercot markets. the results of pmi's activities are included in fpl energy's operating results. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity, note 1 - energy trading and note 4. employees. fpl energy had approximately 3,860 employees at december 31, 2007. subsidiaries of fpl energy have collective bargaining agreements with various unions which are summarized in the table below. union location contract expiration date % of fpl energy employees covered ibew wisconsin june 2009 - august 2010 (a) 12 % utility workers union of america new hampshire december 2008 6 ibew iowa may 2011 4 ibew maine february 2013 2 security police and fire professionals of america iowa may 2012 2 total 26 % _____________________ (a) various employees at point beach are represented by the ibew under four separate contracts with different expiration dates. 16 other fpl group operations fpl group's corporate and other segment represents other business activities, primarily fpl fibernet, that are not separately reportable. see note 17. fpl fibernet. fpl fibernet, a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl group capital, was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of fpl group's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support fpl operations. accordingly, in 2000, fpl's existing fiber-optic lines were transferred to fpl fibernet. fpl fibernet is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. fpl fibernet leases wholesale fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to fpl and other customers, primarily telephone, internet and other telecommunications companies. fpl fibernet's primary business focus is the florida metropolitan (metro) market. metro networks cover miami, fort lauderdale, west palm beach, tampa, st. petersburg, orlando and jacksonville. fpl fibernet also has a long-haul network within florida that leases bandwidth at wholesale rates. at december&nbs p;31, 2007, fpl fibernet's network consisted of approximately 2,660 route miles, which interconnect major cities throughout florida. in 2006, as a result of significant changes in the business climate, fpl fibernet performed an impairment analysis and concluded that an impairment charge related to its metro market assets was necessary. the business climate changes included customer consolidations, migration to a more efficient form of networking technology and lack of future benefits to be achieved through competitive pricing, all of which had a negative impact on the value of fpl fibernet's metro market assets. while the metro market business was expected to continue to generate positive cash flows, management's expectation of the rate of future growth in cash flows was reduced as a result of these business climate changes. accordingly, fpl fibernet recorded an impairment charge of approximately $98 million ($60 million after-tax) in 2006. see note 5 - corporate and other. at december 31, 2007, fpl group's remaining investment in fpl fibernet totaled approximately $121 million. fpl fibernet invested approximately $17 million during 2007 and plans to invest a total of $101 million over the next five years to meet customers' specific requirements and sustain its fiber-optic network. 17 executive officers of fpl group (a) name age position effective date christopher a. bennett 49 vice president &amp; chief strategy, policy and business process improvement officer february 15, 2008 paul i. cutler 48 treasurer of fpl group assistant secretary of fpl group treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of fpl february 19, 2003 december 10, 1997 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 f. mitchell davidson 45 president of fpl energy december 15, 2006 k. michael davis 61 controller and chief accounting officer of fpl group may 13, 1991 vice president, accounting and chief accounting officer of fpl july 1, 1991 moray p. dewhurst (b) 52 vice president and chief financial officer of fpl group senior vice president and chief financial officer of fpl july 17, 2001 july 19, 2001 robert h. escoto 54 vice president, human resources of fpl group assistant secretary of fpl group senior vice president, human resources of fpl assistant secretary of fpl january 25, 2005 november 9, 2004 february 21, 2005 january 25, 2005 lewis hay, iii 52 chief executive officer of fpl group chairman of the board of fpl group chairman of the board and chief executive officer of fpl june 11, 2001 january 1, 2002 january 1, 2002 robert l. mcgrath 54 vice president, engineering, construction &amp; corporate services of fpl group february 21, 2005 senior vice president, engineering, construction &amp; corporate services of fpl february 21, 2005 armando j. olivera 58 president of fpl june 24, 2003 armando pimentel, jr. (b) 45 vice president, finance of fpl group senior vice president, finance of fpl february 15, 2008 february 15, 2008 james l. robo 45 president and chief operating officer of fpl group december 15, 2006 antonio rodriguez 65 vice president, power generation division of fpl group senior vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2007 july 1, 1999 john a. stall 53 vice president, nuclear division of fpl group senior vice president, nuclear division of fpl january 1, 2007 june 4, 2001 edward f. tancer 46 vice president &amp; general counsel of fpl group assistant secretary of fpl group senior vice president &amp; general counsel of fpl assistant secretary of fpl february 21, 2005 january 1, 1997 february 21, 2005 january 1, 1997 ____________________ (a) information is as of february 27, 2008. executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his present position for five years or more and his employment history is continuous. mr. bennett was vice president, business strategy &amp; policy of fpl group from july 2007 to february 15, 2008. prior to that, mr. bennett was vice president of dean &amp; company, a management consulting and investment firm. mr. davidson was senior vice president of business management of fpl energy from march 2005 to december 2006. he was vice president of business management of fpl energy from june 2004 to march 2005. from march 2001 to september 2003, mr. davidson was senior vice president, energy management of duke energy north america (duke) where his primary responsibility was for the overall direction, profitability, growth and risk mitigation for duke's trading business. mr. davis was also controller of fpl from july 1991 to september 2007. mr. dewhurst was also vice president, finance of fpl group and senior vice president, finance of fpl from july 2001 to february 15, 2008. mr. escoto was vice president, human resources of fpl from march 2004 to february 2005. mr. escoto was vice president, human resources of fpl energy from april 2002 to november 2006. mr. hay was president of fpl group from june 2001 to december 2006. mr. mcgrath was senior vice president, engineering and construction of fpl from november 2002 to february 2005. mr. olivera was senior vice president, power systems of fpl from july 1999 to june 2003. mr. pimentel was a partner of deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, from june 1998 to february 9, 2008. mr. robo was president of fpl energy from july 2 002 to december 2006. he was also vice president, corporate development and strategy of fpl group from march 2002 to december 2006. mr. tancer was associate general counsel of fpl group from april 2003 to february 2005. he was also vice president and general counsel of fpl energy from february 2001 to february 2005. (b) mr. dewhurst will relinquish, and mr. pimentel will assume, the title of chief financial officer of fpl group and fpl on the day after the date on which fpl group and fpl file their quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended march 31, 2008. 18 item 1a. risk factors risks relating to fpl group's and fpl's business fpl group and fpl are subject to complex laws and regulations and to changes in laws and regulations as well as changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including, but not limited to, initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the energy industry and environmental matters, including, but not limited to, matters related to the effects of climate change. fpl holds franchise agreements with local municipalities and counties, and must renegotiate expiring agreements. these factors may have a negative impact on the business and results of operations of fpl group and fpl. fpl group and fpl are subject to complex laws and regulations, and to changes in laws or regulations, including, but not limited to, the purpa, the holding company act, the federal power act, the atomic energy act of 1954, as amended, the 2005 energy act and certain sections of the florida statutes relating to public utilities, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including, but not limited to, those of the ferc, the fpsc and the legislatures and utility commissions of other states in which fpl group has operations, and the nrc, with respect to, among other things, allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, operation of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of plant facilities, construction and operation of transmission and distribution facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, decommissioning costs, roe and equity ratio limits, and present or pro spective wholesale and retail competition (including, but not limited to, retail wheeling and transmission costs). the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of any and all costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. the regulatory process generally restricts fpl's ability to grow earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels. fpl group and fpl are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations, as well as the effect of changes in or additions to applicable statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, climate change, waste management, marine and wildlife mortality, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs. there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future. fpl group and fpl operate in a changing market environment influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation, regulation or restructuring of the energy industry, including, but not limited to, deregulation or restructuring of the production and sale of electricity, as well as increased focus on renewable energy sources. fpl group and its subsidiaries will need to adapt to these changes and may face increasing competitive pressure. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations could be affected by fpl's ability to renegotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida. the operation and maintenance of transmission, distribution and power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involve significant risks that could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of fpl group and fpl. the operation and maintenance of transmission, distribution and power generation facilities involve many risks, including, but not limited to, start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines, the inability to properly manage or mitigate known equipment defects throughout fpl group's and fpl's generation fleets and transmission and distribution systems unless and until such defects are remediated, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as hurricanes and droughts), as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. this could result in lost revenues and/or increased expenses, including, but not limited to, the requirement to purchase power in the market at potentially higher prices to meet contra ctual obligations. insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including, but not limited to, the cost of replacement power. in addition to these risks, fpl group's and fpl's nuclear units face certain risks that are unique to the nuclear industry including, but not limited to, the ability to store and/or dispose of spent nuclear fuel and the potential payment of significant retrospective insurance premiums, as well as additional regulatory actions up to and including shutdown of the units stemming from public safety concerns, whether at fpl group's and fpl's plants, or at the plants of other nuclear operators. breakdown or failure of an operating facility of fpl energy may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. the construction of, and capital improvements to, power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involve substantial risks. should construction or capital improvement efforts be unsuccessful, the results of operations and financial condition of fpl group and fpl could be adversely affected. 19 fpl group's and fpl's ability to successfully and timely complete their power generation facilities currently under construction, those projects yet to begin construction or capital improvements to existing facilities within established budgets is contingent upon many variables, including, but not limited to, transmission interconnection issues and escalating costs for materials, labor and environmental compliance, and subject to substantial risks. should any such efforts be unsuccessful, fpl group and fpl could be subject to additional costs, termination payments under committed contracts, and/or the write-off of their investment in the project or improvement. the use of derivative contracts by fpl group and fpl in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the results of operations of fpl group and fpl. fpl group and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards to manage their commodity and financial market risks. fpl group provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities and engages in energy trading activities. fpl group could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these derivative instruments, or if a counterparty fails to perform. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments. in addition, fpl's use of such instruments could be subject to prudency challenges and if found imprudent, cost recovery could be disallowed by t he fpsc. fpl group's competitive energy business is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the control of fpl group, that may reduce the revenues and adversely impact the results of operations and financial condition of fpl group. there are other risks associated with fpl group's competitive energy business. in addition to risks discussed elsewhere, risk factors specifically affecting fpl energy's success in competitive wholesale markets include, but are not limited to, the ability to efficiently develop and operate generating assets, the successful and timely completion of project restructuring activities, maintenance of the qualifying facility status of certain projects, the price and supply of fuel (including transportation), transmission constraints, competition from new sources of generation, excess generation capacity and demand for power. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity, and there are other financial, counterparty and market risks that are beyond the control of fpl energy. fpl energy's inability or failure to effectively hedge its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit r isk or other risk measures could significantly impair fpl group's future financial results. in keeping with industry trends, a portion of fpl energy's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. as a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis, which may affect the volatility of fpl group's financial results. in addition, fpl energy's business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others; if transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, fpl energy's ability to sell and deliver its wholesale power may be limited. fpl group's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. fpl group is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry, in general, as well as the passage of the 2005 energy act. in addition, fpl group may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. because fpl group and fpl rely on access to capital markets, the inability to maintain current credit ratings and to access capital markets on favorable terms may limit the ability of fpl group and fpl to grow their businesses and would likely increase interest costs. fpl group and fpl rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. the inability of fpl group, fpl group capital and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings, as well as significant volatility in the financial markets, could affect their ability to raise capital on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact fpl group's and fpl's ability to grow their businesses and would likely increase their interest costs. customer growth in fpl's service area affects fpl group's and fpl's results of operations. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations are affected by the growth in customer accounts in fpl's service area. customer growth can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in florida, including, but not limited, to job and income growth, housing starts and new home prices. customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities at fpl. 20 weather affects fpl group's and fpl's results of operations. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations are affected by changes in the weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas, affect the price of energy commodities, and can affect the production of electricity at power generating facilities, including, but not limited to, wind, solar and hydro-powered facilities. fpl group's and fpl's results of operations can be affected by the impact of severe weather which can be destructive, causing outages and/or property damage, may affect fuel supply, and could require additional costs to be incurred. at fpl, recovery of these costs is subject to fpsc approval. fpl group and fpl are subject to costs and other effects of legal proceedings as well as changes in or additions to applicable tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws and corporate governance requirements. fpl group and fpl are subject to costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, as well as the effect of new, or changes in, tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws and corporate governance requirements. threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt fpl group's and fpl's business may impact the operations of fpl group and fpl in unpredictable ways. fpl group and fpl are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities, as well as cyber attacks and disruptive activities of individuals and/or groups. infrastructure facilities and systems, including, but not limited to, generation, transmission and distribution facilities, physical assets and information systems, in general, have been identified as potential targets. the effects of these threats and activities include, but are not limited to, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit power, the delay in development and construction of new generating facilities, the risk of a significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the u.s. economy, delay in economic recovery in the u.s., and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance. the ability of fpl group and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be affected by national, state or local events and company-specific events. fpl group's and fpl's ability to obtain insurance, and the cost of and coverage provided by such insurance, could be affected by national, state or local events as well as company-specific events. fpl group and fpl are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect the businesses and financial condition of fpl group and fpl. fpl group and fpl are subject to employee workforce factors, including, but not limited to, loss or retirement of key executives, availability of qualified personnel, inflationary pressures on payroll and benefits costs, collective bargaining agreements with union employees and work stoppage that could affect the businesses and financial condition of fpl group and fpl. the risks described herein are not the only risks facing fpl group and fpl. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to fpl group or fpl, or that are currently deemed to be immaterial, also may materially adversely affect fpl group's or fpl's business, financial condition and/or future operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity - market risk sensitivity. 47risk factors 19 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on nextera energy's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause nextera energy's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of nextera energy and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and nextera energy and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 3 part i item 1. business nextera energy nextera energy is one of the largest electric power companies in north america and the u.s. leading producer of renewable energy from wind and solar projects. at december 31, 2010, nextera energy had nearly 43,000 mw of generating capacity - approximately 53% natural gas, 19% wind, 13% nuclear, 13% oil and coal, and 2% hydro and solar. nextera energy's clean generation fleet gives the company significantly lower emissions rates of carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide than the electric power industry as a whole. in addition to fuel diversity, nextera energy has geographic diversity with approximately 15,000 employees overseeing operations in 28 states and canada. wind assets are in service in 17 states and three canadian provinces. nextera energy also operat es the third-largest nuclear fleet in the united states with eight units at five plants in four states. nextera energy was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida and has two principal operating subsidiaries, fpl and nextera energy resources. fpl is a rate-regulated utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in florida. nextera energy resources is nextera energy's competitive energy subsidiary which produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable fuels. capital holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of nextera energy, holds the capital stock of, or has equity interests in, and provides funding for, nextera energy's operating subsidiaries, other than fpl and its subsidiaries, including nextera energy resources. for a discussion of fpl's and nextera energy resources' businesses, see fpl operations and nextera energy r esources operations below. for financial information regarding nextera energy's business segments, see note 15. website access to sec filings. nextera energy and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on nextera energy's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. information on nextera energy's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) is not incorporated by reference in this combined annual report on form 10-k. the sec maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about nextera energy and fpl filed electronically with the sec. fpl operations general. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida, serving more than 8.7 million people through approximately 4.5 million customer accounts, and one of the largest electric utilities in the united states. fpl supplies electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of florida. incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925, fpl is a wholly-owned subsidiary of nextera energy. fpl is a vertically integrated, rate-regulated utility with 23,722 mw of generating assets as of december 31, 2010. fpl's typical monthly residential customer bill was the lowest of all 55 electricity providers in the state of florida as of december 31, 2010, and was 24% below the national average as of july 2010, the most recent data available. during 2010, fpl delivered 99.98% service reliability to its customers, and was in the top quartile nationwide for reliability based on 2009, the most recent data available. with a generating fleet that produces 78% of its electric power from natural gas and nuclear, fpl is also one the cleanest utilities in the nation, with an overall carbon dioxide emissions rate 35% below the industry average. during 2010, fpl completed construction of a 75 mw hybrid solar power facility that combines a solar-thermal trough array with an existing combined-cycle natural gas plant. fpl has 110 mw of solar generating capacity in its portfolio, more than any other utility outside of california. fpl's fossil fleet achieved a record level of fuel efficiency in 2010, with a system-wide heat rate of 8,043 british thermal units per kwh compared with 10,060 for the industry as a whole in 2009, the most recent data available. fpl has maintained operational efficiency as well, with o&amp;m expenses for 2010 of 1.5 cents per kwh, compared with a 2009 industry average of 2.2 cents per kwh. 4 the percentage of fpl's operating revenues by customer class was as follows: years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 residential 54 % 56 % 53 % commercial 37 41 40 industrial 2 3 3 wholesale 1 1 1 other, including deferred or recovered retail clause revenues, the net change in retail unbilled revenues, pole attachment rentals, transmission sales and customer-related fees 6 (1 ) 3 100 % 100 % 100 % regulation. fpl's retail operations provided approximately 98% of fpl's 2010 operating revenues. retail operations are regulated by the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities and other matters. fpl is also subject to regulation by the ferc with respect to certain aspects of its operations, including, but not limited to, the acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy. fpl must also comply with mandatory reliability standards established by the nerc to ensure the reliability of the u.s. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts. in addition, fpl's nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. nrc regulations govern the granting of licenses for the construction, operation and maintenance and retirement of nuclear power plants and subject these plants to continuing review and regulation. retail ratemaking. the underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. base rates - in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the fpsc's determination of fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed mon thly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that an allowed roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements, which occur at the initiative of fpl, the fpsc, the state of florida office of public counsel or a substantially affected party. base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the fpsc. effective march 1, 2010, pursuant to an fpsc final order (fpsc rate order) with regard to fpl's march 2009 petition (2009 rate case) that requested, among other things, a permanent base rate increase, new retail base rates for fpl were established, resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of approximately $75 million on an annualized basis. the fpsc rate order also established a regulatory roe of 10.0% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points and an adjusted regulatory equity ratio of 59.1%, and shifted certain costs from retail base rates to the capacity clause. in addition, the fpsc rate order directed fpl to reduce depreciation expense (surplus depreciation credit) over the 2010 to 2013 period related to a depreciation reserve surplus. in august 2010, fpl, the state of flori da office of public counsel, the florida attorney general's office and all other principal parties in fpl's 2009 rate case signed a stipulation and settlement regarding fpl's base rates (2010 rate agreement). in december 2010, the fpsc voted to approve the 2010 rate agreement and on february 1, 2011 issued a final order reflecting its decision to approve the 2010 rate agreement. key elements of the 2010 rate agreement, which will be effective through december 31, 2012, are as follows: subject to the provisions of the 2010 rate agreement, retail base rates will be effectively frozen through the end of 2012. incremental cost recovery through fpl's capacity clause for the new combined-cycle natural gas unit at wcec (wcec unit no. 3), which is expected to be placed in service by mid-2011, will be permitted up to the amount of the projected fuel savings for customers during the term of the 2010 rate agreement. see fossil operations below. future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an accelerated basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that produces a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. if storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, fpl may request an increase to the $4 surcharge for the amount above $800 million. if fpl's earned regulatory roe falls below 9%, fpl may seek retail base rate relief. if fpl's earned regulatory roe rises above 11%, any party to the 2010 rate agreement may seek a reduction in fpl's retail base rates. in determining the regulatory roe for all purposes under the 2010 rate agreement, earnings will be calculated on an actual, non-weather-adjusted basis. 5 fpl can vary the amount of surplus depreciation credit taken in any calendar year up to a cap in 2010 of $267 million, a cap in subsequent years of $267 million plus the amount of any unused portion from prior years, and a cap of $776 million (surplus depreciation credit cap) over the course of the 2010 rate agreement, provided that in any year of the 2010 rate agreement, including 2010, fpl must use at least enough surplus depreciation credit to maintain a 9% earned regulatory roe but may not use any amount of surplus depreciation credit that would result in an earned regulatory roe in excess of 11%. prior to the date new retail base rates were effective pursuant to the fpsc rate order, fpl's retail base rates were determined in accordance with the terms of a rate agreement approved in 2005 (2005 rate agreement), which was effective january 1, 2006. see management's discussion - overview for a discussion of the 2005 rate agreement. cost recovery clauses - cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange expenses, conservation and certain environmental-related expenses, certain revenue taxes and franchise fees. beginning in 2009, pre-construction costs and carrying charges for fpl's two additional nuclear units at turkey point and carrying charges on construction costs for fpl's approximately 400 mw to 460 mw of additional capacity at st. lucie and turkey point are also recovered through a cost recovery clause. also beginning in 2009, costs incurred for fpl's three solar generating facilities are re covered through a cost recovery clause. cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class. these cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect the variance of actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the adjustment charges for prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. in 2010, fuel clause recoveries were approximately $4.5 billion. fpl uses a risk management fuel procurement program which was approved by the fpsc. the fpsc reviews the program activities and results for prudence on an annual basis as part of its annual review of fuel costs. the program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of fpl's fuel requirements. see energy marketing and trading below, management's discussion - results of operations - fpl, note 1 - regulation and note 3. capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause. prior to march 2010, such payments were recovered through the capacity clause and base rates. in accordance with the fpsc's nuclear cost recovery rule, fpl also recovers pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax afudc rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity clause. as property related to the new capacity goes into service, construction costs are recovered through base rate increases. see nuclear operations below. in accordance with the 2010 rate agreement, cost recovery for wcec unit no. 3, which is expected to be placed in service by mid-2011, will be permitted up to the amount of the pro jected fuel savings for customers during the term of the 2010 rate agreement through fpl's capacity clause and will be reported as retail base revenues. see base rates above. in 2010, capacity clause recoveries were approximately $606 million. costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from customers through the conservation clause. in 2010, conservation clause recoveries were approximately $187 million. certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 and costs associated with fpl's three solar facilities are recovered through the environmental clause. in 2010, environmental clause recoveries were approximately $175 million. see environmental and solar operations below. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. such costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. competition. fpl currently holds 176 franchise agreements to provide electric service in various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2040. of the 176 franchise agreements, 8 expire in 2011, 7 expire in 2012 and 161 expire during the period 2013 through 2040. negotiations are ongoing to renew franchises with upcoming expirations. fpl also provides service to 13 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements. fpl considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. fpl currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. the ferc has jurisdiction over potential changes that could affect competition in wholesale transactions. in 2010, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 3% of fpl's total operating revenues. various states, other than florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the retail electric industry in florida in the near future. if the basis of regulation for some or all of fpl's business changes from cost-based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. see management's discussion - critical accounting policies and estimates - regulatory accounting. 6 the fpsc promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam generating capacity by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, such as fpl, to issue a request for proposal (rfp) except when the fpsc determines that an exception from the rfp process is in the public interest. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the power purchase agreement and, if appropriate , provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. new nuclear power plants are exempt from the rfp requirement. see nuclear operations below regarding the approval by the fpsc for two additional nuclear units at turkey point. environmental. fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by some of the emerging issues included in the environmental matters section. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. during 2010, fpl spent approximately $181 million on capital additions related to environmental matters, primarily to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations. fpl's capital expenditures related to environmental matters are estimated to be $228 million for 2011 through 2013, including approximately $122 million in 2011, and are included in estimated planned capital expenditures set forth in capital expenditures below. system capability and load. at december 31, 2010, fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 25,800 mw, of which 23,722 mw were from fpl-owned facilities (see item 2 - generating facilities) and 2,078 mw were available through purchased power contracts (see note 14 - contracts). fpl's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2011 is approximately 23%. this reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of output from fpl's active generating units (excluding solar, which is not considered a firm energy generator resource), purchased power contracts and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of demand side management (dsm) programs, including load management, which was estimated at december 31, 2010 to be capable of reducing demand by 1,805 mw, and energy efficiency and conservation programs. in 2009, the fpsc issued an order that will require florida utilities, including fpl, to meet higher dsm goals for both demand and energy. fpl submitted its dsm plan to the fpsc in 2010 and, in january 2011, the fpsc ordered fpl to submit a revised plan by march 2011. once a dsm plan is approved by the fpsc, program standards will be submitted to the fpsc for approval. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. however, customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. the highest peak load fpl has served to date was 24,346 mw, which occurred on january 11, 2010. fpl had adequate res ources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand. see fossil operations and nuclear operations below regarding generation projects currently under construction. fuel mix. fpl's generating plants use a variety of fuels. the diverse fuel sources, along with purchased power, are intended to enable fpl to shift between sources of generation to achieve a more economical fuel mix. see fossil operations and nuclear operations below, and item 2 - generating facilities. fpl's 2010 fuel mix based on kwh produced was as follows: fuel source percentage of kwh produced natural gas 58 % nuclear 20 % purchased power 13 % coal 5 % oil 4 % solar &lt;1 % fossil operations. at december 31, 2010, fpl owned and operated 79 units that used fossil fuels such as natural gas and/or oil, and has a joint-ownership interest in three coal units. these fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity demand. fpl is currently constructing wcec unit no. 3, a natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit of approximately 1,220 mw, which is expected to be placed in service by mid-2011. fpl is also in the process of modernizing its cape canaveral and riviera beach power plants to high-efficiency natural gas-fired units and expects the units to be placed in service by 2013 and 2014, respectively. each mo dernized plant is expected to provide approximately 1,200 mw of capacity. see capital expenditures below. 7 fpl has several firm transportation contracts in place with four different suppliers with expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2036 that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation at its existing units. to the extent desirable, fpl purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from two suppliers based on pipeline availability. fpl has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. fpl has a long-term agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2013. see note 14 - contracts. fpl's oil requirements are obtained under shor t-term contracts and in the spot market. fpl has, through its joint ownership interest in st. johns river power park (sjrpp) units nos. 1 and 2, a coal supply and transportation contract for all of the 2011 fuel needs and a portion of the 2012 and 2013 fuel needs for those units. all of the transportation requirements and a portion of the coal supply needs for scherer unit no. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts. fpl's remaining fuel requirements for these units will be obtained in the spot market. see note 14 - contracts. nuclear operations. fpl owns, or has undivided interests in, and operates four nuclear units, two at turkey point and two at st. lucie, with a total net generating capability of 2,939 mw. the nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for approximately 30 days. this duration is longer for expanded scope outages, three of which are scheduled in 2011 related to the addition of capacity at fpl's existing nuclear units. the following table summarizes certain information related to fpl's nuclear un its: facility net capability (mw) operating license expiration dates next scheduled refueling outage st. lucie unit no. 1 839 2036 august 2011 st. lucie unit no. 2 714 2043 april 2012 turkey point unit no. 3 693 2032 january 2012 turkey point unit no. 4 693 2033 march 2011 fpl is in the process of adding approximately 400 mw to 460 mw of capacity at its existing nuclear units at st. lucie and turkey point, which additional capacity is projected to be placed in service from spring 2011 to 2013. the construction costs relating to the increase in capacity yet to be incurred as of december 31, 2010 are included in the estimated planned capital expenditures set forth in capital expenditures below. as part of the conditions of certification by the fdep for the turkey point project, fpl was required to implement a monitoring plan in and around the turkey point cooling canals due to concerns over potential saltwater intrusion beyond fpl's property. monitoring under the plan includes collection of data for a minimum of two years prior to and two years after the date the addi tional capacity is placed in service. the monitoring plan is designed to establish a baseline and assess the vertical and horizontal effects of the cooling canal system on existing and projected surface and groundwater and ecological conditions surrounding turkey point. the ultimate results of the monitoring plan are uncertain, and the financial and operational impacts on fpl, if any, cannot be determined at this time. in 2008, the fpsc approved fpl's need petition for two additional nuclear units at its turkey point site. the two units combined are expected to add approximately 2,200 mw of capacity and have projected in-service dates between 2022 and 2023. additional approvals from other regulatory agencies will be required later in the development process. see capital expenditures below. fpl has several contracts for the supply of uranium, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from march 2011 through 2022. see note 14 - contracts. under the nuclear waste policy act of 1982, as amended (nuclear waste policy act), the doe is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. as required by the nuclear waste policy act, fpl is a party to contracts with the doe to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its turkey point and st. lucie nuclear units. the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current gene ration from nuclear power plants. through december 31, 2010, fpl has paid approximately $651 million in such fees to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund. the doe did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the nuclear waste policy act. in 2009, fpl and certain nuclear plant joint owners signed a settlement agreement (spent fuel settlement agreement) with the u.s. government agreeing to dismiss with prejudice lawsuits filed against the u.s. government seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from fpl's nuclear plants. the spent fuel settlement agreement permits fpl to make annual filings to recover certain spent fuel storage costs incurred by fpl which will be payable by the u.s. government on an annual basis. through december 31, 2010, fpl has collected approximately $121 million from the u.s. government pursuant to the spent fuel settlement agreement and has paid appro ximately $6 million to the joint owners of st. lucie unit no. 2. fpl will continue to pay fees to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund. in march 2010, the doe filed a motion with the nrc to withdraw its license application for a high-level nuclear waste repository at yucca mountain. the doe's withdrawal motion has been challenged and is being litigated before the nrc and the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia (d.c. circuit). in light of the obama administration's decision not to proceed with the yucca mountain repository project, the doe has established a blue ribbon commission on america's nuclear future (brc) to conduct a comprehensive review of policies for managing the back end of the nuclear fuel cycle and to provide recommendations for developing a safe, long-term solution to managing used nuclear fuel and nuclear waste. the brc is scheduled to complete its activities in january 2012. 8 fpl uses both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by st. lucie units nos. 1 and 2, which should allow fpl to store all spent nuclear fuel at this facility through license expiration. fpl currently stores all spent nuclear fuel generated by turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 in on-site storage pools. these spent nuclear fuel storage pools do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective units. in july 2011, fpl plans to begin using dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by the turkey point facility, which should allow fpl to store spent nuclear fuel at this facility through license expiration. the nrc's regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 at the end of its useful life in 2043. see estimated decommissioning cost data in management's discussion - critical accounting policies and estimates - nuclear decommissioning and fossil/solar dismantlement. solar operations. fpl placed its first utility-scale solar generating facility into service in 2009 and placed two additional solar generating facilities in service in 2010. fpl's three solar generating facilities consist of a 25 mw solar pv facility in desoto county, florida, a 10 mw solar pv facility in brevard county, florida and a 75 mw solar thermal facility in martin county, florida. energy marketing and trading. fpl's energy marketing &amp; trading division (emt) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards, to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see retail ratemaking above, management's discussion - results of operations - fpl and energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 3. capital expenditures. capital expenditures at fpl include, among other things, the cost for construction or acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet customer demand, as well as capital improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities and the procurement of nuclear fuel. fpl's actual capital expenditures for 2008 through 2010 and estimated planned capital expenditures for 2011 through 2015 as of december 31, 2010 were as follows: actual planned 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 total (millions) generation: (a) new (b)(c) $ 880 $ 1,203 $ 1,148 $ 1,520 $ 1,870 $ 500 $ 105 $ - $ 3,995 existing 601 651 588 655 570 610 665 490 2,990 transmission and distribution 744 633 606 720 870 820 760 840 4,010 nuclear fuel 130 178 98 260 170 255 205 220 1,110 general and other 94 102 101 120 145 95 120 105 585 total $ 2,449 $ 2,767 $ 2,541 $ 3,275 $ 3,625 $ 2,280 $ 1,855 $ 1,655 $ 12,690 (a) includes afudc of approximately $49 million, $76 million, $79 million, $29 million and $3 million in 2011 to 2015, respectively. (b) includes land, generating structures, transmission interconnection and integration and licensing. (c) includes projects that have received fpsc approval. includes pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax afudc rate) on construction costs recoverable through the capacity clause of approximately $98 million, $75 million and $24 million in 2011 to 2013, respectively. excludes capital expenditures for the construction costs for the two additional nuclear units at fpl's turkey point site beyond what is required to receive an nrc license for each unit. these estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary significantly from these estimates. see management's discussion - liquidity and capital resources - contractual obligations and estimated planned capital expenditures and note 14 - commitments. electric and magnetic fields. electric and magnetic fields (emf) are present around electrical facilities, including, but not limited to, appliances, power lines and building wiring. since the 1970s, there has been public, scientific and regulatory attention given to the question of whether emf causes or contributes to adverse health effects. u.s. and international scientific organizations have evaluated the emf research. their reviews have generally concluded that while some epidemiology studies report an association with childhood leukemia, controlled laboratory studies do not support that association and the scientific studies overall have not demonstrated that emf cause or contribute to any type of cancer or other d isease. 9 the fdep established emf standards for electricity facilities in 1989 and fpl facilities comply with these standards. future changes in the fdep regulations could require additional capital expenditures by fpl for such things as increasing the width of right of ways or relocating or reconfiguring transmission facilities. it is not presently known whether any such expenditures will be required. currently, there are no such changes proposed to the fdep regulations . employees. fpl had approximately 10,000 employees at december 31, 2010. approximately 32% of the employees are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2011. nextera energy resources operations general. nextera energy resources is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the united states, with 18,866 mw of generating assets across 26 states as of december 31, 2010. the company also owns and operates wind projects in the canadian provinces of nova scotia, quebec and alberta. nextera energy resources is the largest owner of wind and solar energy projects in the united states and the fourth largest owner of wind projects in canada. of nextera energy resources' net generating capability at december 31, 2010, more than 11,300 mw were contracted and approximately 5,800 mw operate on a merchant basis. its wind portfolio has expanded from 1,745 mw in 2002 to 8,298 mw in 2010. as of december 31, 2010, nextera energy resources is the largest generator of solar energy in the united states, principally through a 310 mw facility in california's mojave desert, of which 148 mw is owned by nextera energy resources. nextera energy resources is pursuing additional commercial-scale solar projects in the united states, canada and spain. a wholly-owned subsidiary of capital holdings, nextera energy resources was formed in 1998 to aggregate nextera energy's existing competitive energy businesses. it is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. through its subsidiaries, nextera energy resources currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric-generating facilities in wholesale energy markets. nextera energy resources also provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and owns a retail electricity provider based in texas. nextera energy resources also engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities. at december 31, 2010, nextera energy resources managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its projects in which it has an ownership interest. nextera energy resources had ownership interests in operating independent power projects with a net generating capability totaling 18,866 mw (see item 2 - generating facilities). generation capacity spans various geographic regions in north america and is produced using a variety of fuel sources, thereby reducing overall volatility related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio basis. at december 31, 2010, the percentage of capacity by geographic region was: geographic region percentage of generation capacity ercot 28 % northeast 27 % midwest 22 % west 15 % other south 8 % at december 31, 2010, fuel sources for these projects were as follows: fuel source percentage of generation capacity wind 44 % natural gas 35 % nuclear 14 % oil 4 % hydro 2 % solar and other 1 % 10 nextera energy resources' strategy is, among other things, to continue to maintain its leadership position in wind, accelerate growth in solar development, continue to expand its transmission capability, grow its customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses, and develop its natural gas infrastructure business. nextera energy resources' customer supply business includes full energy and capacity requirements services and the operations of a retail electricity provider. nextera energy resources seeks to expand its generation portfolio primarily through wind and solar development and acquisitions where economic prospects are attractive. nextera energy resources plans to add approximately 3,500 mw to 5,000 mw of new wind generation in 2010 to 2014, including 754 mw added in 2010 and appr oximately 700 mw to 1,000 mw in 2011. in addition to wind expansion, nextera energy resources is considering several solar development opportunities in the united states and europe, and plans to add approximately 400 mw to 600 mw of new solar generation in 2010 to 2014, including 5 mw added in 2010. the wind and solar expansions are subject to, among other things, continued public policy support, support for the construction and availability of sufficient transmission facilities and capacity, continued market demand, supply chain expansion and access to capital at reasonable cost and on reasonable terms. nextera energy resources continues to invest in natural gas infrastructure opportunities. nextera energy resources is evaluating additional natural gas infrastructure opportunities and will continue to explore additional projects as opportunities that it believes will be economically attractive become available. nextera energy resources' actual capital expenditures and investments for 2008 through 2010 and estimated planned capital expenditures for 2011 through 2015 as of december 31, 2010 were as follows: actual planned 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 total (millions) wind (a) $ 2,255 $ 2,625 $ 1,950 $ 505 $ 30 $ 10 $ 5 $ - $ 550 solar (b) 20 40 185 955 885 420 75 - 2,335 nuclear (c) 335 455 510 585 275 250 250 265 1,625 natural gas 115 120 140 140 35 65 40 120 400 other (d) 80 110 285 85 75 50 60 50 320 total $ 2,805 $ 3,350 $ 3,070 $ 2,270 $ 1,300 $ 795 $ 430 $ 435 $ 5,230 (a) consists of capital expenditures for planned new wind projects that have received applicable internal approvals and related transmission. nextera energy resources plans to add new wind generation of approximately 3,500 mw to 5,000 mw in 2010 to 2014, including 754 mw added in 2010 and approximately 700 mw to 1,000 mw in 2011, at a total cost of approximately $7 billion to $10 billion. (b) consists of capital expenditures for planned new solar projects that have received applicable internal approvals and related transmission. nextera energy resources plans to add new solar generation of approximately 400 mw to 600 mw in 2010 through 2014, including 5 mw added in 2010, at a total cost of approximately $3 billion to $4 billion. (c) includes nuclear fuel. (d) consists of capital expenditures that have received applicable internal approvals. nextera energy resources plans to add natural gas infrastructure projects totaling approximately $400 million to $600 million in 2010 through 2014. these estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary significantly from these estimates. see management's discussion - liquidity and capital resources - contractual obligations and estimated planned capital expenditures and note 14 - commitments. portfolio by category. nextera energy resources' generating assets are categorized as follows: wind assets - at december 31, 2010, nextera energy resources had ownership interests in wind generating facilities with a combined capacity of approximately 8,298 mw (net ownership), of which approximately 79% have long-term contracts with utilities and power marketers, predominantly under fixed-price agreements with a weighted-average remaining contract life of 14 years. the expected output of the remaining 21% is substantially hedged through 2012 and partially hedged through 2018 against changes in commodity prices. nextera energy resources operates substantially all of these wind facilities. approximately 91% of nextera energy resources' net ownership in wind facilities has received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the p ublic utility holding company act of 2005 (holding company act). essentially all of the remaining facilities have qualifying facility status under purpa. nextera energy resources' wind facilities are located in 17 states and canada. nextera energy resources expects to add approximately 700 mw to 1,000 mw of new wind generation in 2011. 11 contracted assets - at december 31, 2010, nextera energy resources had 4,740 mw of non-wind contracted assets. the contracted category includes all projects, other than wind, with contracts for substantially all of their output. in 2010, two natural gas-fired plants, located in california and pennsylvania, with a combined net generating capacity of approximately 1,250 mw moved from the merchant assets category to the contracted assets category when their respective long-term power sales agreements became effective. essentially all of the contracted assets were under power sales contracts with utilities, with a weighted-average remaining contract life of 14 years, and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from december 2011 to 2033. see note 14 - contracts. approximately 1,550 mw of this capacity is natural gas-fired generation. the remaining 3,190 mw use a variety of fuels and technologies such as nuclear, oil, solar and coal. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 95% of nextera energy resources' contracted generating capacity is from power plants that have received exempt wholesale generator status under the holding company act, while the remaining 5% has qualifying facility status under purpa. during the third quarter of 2011, a natural gas plant, located in the northeast region, with a net generating capacity of approximately 145 mw will move to the merchant assets category when its long-term power sales agreement ends. merchant assets - at december 31, 2010, nextera energy resources' portfolio of merchant assets includes 5,828 mw of owned nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydro generation, of which 3,036 mw is located in the northeast region and 2,792 mw in the ercot region. the merchant assets include 1,017 mw of peak generating facilities. merchant assets are plants that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output and therefore require active marketing and hedging. approximately 71% (based on net mw capability) of the natural gas fueled merchant assets have natural gas supply agreements or a combination of natural gas supply and transportation agreements to provide for on-peak natural gas requirements. see note 14 - con tracts. derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) are used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty and operational risks. see energy marketing and trading below. nuclear operations. nextera energy resources wholly owns, or has undivided interests in, four nuclear units with a total net generating capability of 2,554 mw. nextera energy resources is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly owned units. see estimated decommissioning cost data in management's discussion - critical accounting policies and estimates - nuclear decommissioning and fossil/solar dismantlement. the nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications . the following table summarizes certain information related to nextera energy resources' nuclear units: facility location net capability (mw) portfolio category operating license expiration dates next scheduled refueling outage seabrook new hampshire 1,100 merchant 2030 (a) april 2011 duane arnold iowa 431 contracted (b) 2034 october 2012 point beach unit no. 1 wisconsin 509 contracted (c) 2030 october 2011 point beach unit no. 2 wisconsin 514 contracted (c) 2033 march 2011 (a) in 2010, nextera energy resources filed an application with the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years. (b) nextera energy resources sells substantially all of its share of the output of duane arnold under a long-term contract expiring in 2014. (c) nextera energy resources sells 100% of the output of point beach units nos. 1 and 2 under a long-term contract through the current license terms. nextera energy resources is in the process of adding approximately 80 mw of capacity at each of its existing nuclear units at point beach during the scheduled refueling outages in the fall of 2011 for unit no. 1 and the spring of 2011 for unit no. 2. the construction costs relating to the capacity additions yet to be incurred as of december 31, 2010 are included in estimated planned capital expenditures set forth in capital expenditures above. see note 14 - commitments. 12 nextera energy resources' nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply of uranium, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from march 2011 through 2022. see note 14 - contracts. under the nuclear waste policy act, the doe is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. as required by the nuclear waste policy act, subsidiaries of nextera energy resources are parties to contracts with the doe to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its seabrook, duane arnold and point beach nuclear units. the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. the total cumulative amount of such fees paid to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund for seabrook, duane arnold and point beach, including amounts paid by all joint owners, since the start of the plants' operations through december 31, 2010, is approximately $535 million, of which nextera energy resources has paid approximately $115 million since the date of the plants' respective acquisitions. the doe did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the nuclear waste policy act. in 2009, certain subsidiaries of nextera energy resources and certain nuclear plant joint owners signed the spent fuel settlement agreement with the u.s. government agreeing to dismiss with prejudice lawsuits filed against the u.s. government seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from the seabrook, duane arnold and point beach nuclear plant s. the spent fuel settlement agreement permits nextera energy resources to make annual filings to recover certain spent fuel storage costs incurred by nextera energy resources which will be payable by the u.s. government on an annual basis. through december 31, 2010, nextera energy resources has collected approximately $65 million from the u.s. government pursuant to the spent fuel settlement agreement and has paid approximately $21 million to the joint owners of duane arnold and seabrook. nextera energy resources will continue to pay fees to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund. for discussion of current developments regarding a high-level nuclear waste repository see fpl - nuclear operations. all of nextera energy resources' nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which should allow nextera energy resources to store spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. energy marketing and trading. pmi, a subsidiary of nextera energy resources, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. its primary role is to manage the commodity risk of nextera energy resources' portfolio. pmi sells the output from nextera energy resources' plants that has not been sold under long-term contracts. pmi procures natural gas and oil for nextera energy resources' use in power generation, as well as substantially all of the electricity needs for nextera energy resources' retail electricity provider operations, conducted primarily in texas, which at december 31, 2010 served approximately 2,180 mw of peak load to approximately 189,000 customers. pmi uses derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of nextera energy resources' power generation assets. pmi also provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. full energy and capacity requirements services include load-following services, which require the supplier of energy to vary the quantity delivered based on the load demand needs of the customer, as well as various ancillary services. at december 31, 2010, pmi provided full energy and capacity requirements services totaling approximately 5,820 mw of peak load in the nepool, pjm, ercot, miso and nyiso markets. the results of pmi's activities are included in nextera energy resources' operating results.&#160 ; see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity, note 1 - energy trading and note 3. regulation. each of the energy markets in which nextera energy resources operates is subject to local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. at december 31, 2010, nextera energy resources had ownership interests in operating independent power projects that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the holding company act, which represent approximately 95% of nextera energy resources' net generating capacity. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. nextera energy resources' exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, hydropower, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities. essentially all of the remaining 5% of nextera energy resources' net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under purpa. nextera energy resources' qualifying facilities generate electricity from wind, solar, fossil fuels and waste coal. qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the federal power act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. while projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. additionally, regional transmission organizations (rtos) and independent system operators (isos) exist in a number of regions to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas. although each rto and iso may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. nextera energy resources currently has operations that fall within the following rtos and isos: aeso, caiso, ercot, ieso, isone, miso, nyiso, pjm and spp. additionally, certain nextera energy resources facilities are subject to the nerc's mandatory reliability standards, and its nucle ar facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. see fpl - regulation for further discussion of nerc and nrc regulations. 13 nextera energy resources continues to evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. in december 2010, ercot implemented a locational marginal price market design (a market-pricing approach used to manage the efficient use of the transmission system when congestion occurs on the electricity grid). nextera energy resources does not anticipate a material impact, if any, on its business resulting from implementation of the new market design. competition. competitive wholesale markets in the united states continue to evolve and vary among and within geographic regions. revenues from electricity sales in these markets vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind, solar and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from regulated utilities and new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth, level of demand, environmental requirements and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for nextera energy resources. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. nextera energy resources seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. environmental. nextera energy resources is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by some of the emerging issues included in the environmental matters section. during 2010, nextera energy resources spent approximately $6 million on capital additions related to environmental matters, primarily to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations. nextera energy resources' capital expenditures related to environmental matters are estimated to be $5 million for 2011 through 2013, including approximately $3 million in 2011, and are included in estimated planned capital expenditures set forth in general above. employees. nextera energy resources and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,690 employees at december 31, 2010. subsidiaries of nextera energy resources have collective bargaining agreements with various unions which are summarized in the table below. union location contract expiration date % of nextera energy resources employees covered ibew wisconsin june 2012 - september 2013 (a) 10 % utility workers union of america new hampshire december 2013 5 ibew iowa may 2012 3 security police and fire professionals of america iowa july 2012 3 ibew maine february 2013 2 ibew california march 2012 - (b) total 23 % (a) various employees at point beach are represented by the ibew under four separate contracts with different expiration dates. (b) employees constitute less than 1% of nextera energy resources' employees. other nextera energy operations nextera energy's corporate and other segment represents other business activities, primarily fpl fibernet and lone star, that are not separately reportable. see note 15. fpl fibernet. fpl fibernet, a wholly-owned subsidiary of capital holdings, was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of nextera energy's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support fpl operations. accordingly, in 2000, fpl's existing fiber-optic lines were transferred to fpl fibernet. fpl fibernet is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. fpl fibernet leases wholesale fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to fpl and other customers, primarily telephone, wireless carriers, internet and other telecommunications companies. fpl fibernet's primary business focus is the florida metropolitan (metro) market. metro networks cover miami, fort lauderdale, we st palm beach, tampa, st. petersburg, orlando, jacksonville, naples, ft. myers and tallahassee. fpl fibernet also has a long-haul network within florida that provides bandwidth at wholesale rates. at december 31, 2010, fpl fibernet's network consisted of approximately 4,030 route miles, which interconnect major cities throughout florida. at december 31, 2010, nextera energy's investment in fpl fibernet totaled approximately $180 million. fpl fibernet invested approximately $48 million during 2010 and plans to invest a total of approximately $180 million over the next five years primarily to meet customers' specific requirements under contract. 14 lone star. in 2008, the public utility commission of texas (puct) approved a $4.9 billion transmission grid improvement program that would add approximately 2,300 miles of 345 kv lines to deliver power from the competitive renewable energy zones (crez) in west texas and the texas panhandle to the dallas/fort worth area and other population centers in texas. in 2009, lone star, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of capital holdings, was allocated a portion of the transmission projects by the puct under the crez program. lone star's crez project includes constructing and operating approximately 300 miles of 345 kv transmission lines in texas. in 2010, the puct approve d lone star's certificate of convenience and necessity, which both established lone star as a regulated transmission provider in texas and granted approval to begin construction of lone star's crez project. lone star is subject to the jurisdiction of the puct over a wide range of business activities, including, among others, rates charged to customers and certain aspects of siting, construction and operation of transmission systems. the puct has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or impudently incurred. in late 2010, lone star commenced right-of-way acquisition and early construction activities on its crez project and expects the transmission line to be placed in service in 2013. at december 31, 2010, nextera energy's investment in lone star totaled approximately $20 million. lone star invested approximately $20 million during 2010 and plans to invest a total of approximately $780 million, including afudc, during the period 2011 through 2014 for construction of the transmission line. environmental matters nextera energy and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules, and regulations relating to air and water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line siting, emf from power lines and substations, oil discharge from transformers, lead paint, asbestos, noise and aesthetics, solid waste, natural resources, wildlife mortality and other environmental matters. compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. environmental laws and regulations are subject to change. the following is a discussion of emerging federal and state initiatives and rules that could potentially affect nextera energy and its subsidiaries, including fpl and nextera energy resources. climate change - the u.s. congress and certain states and regions continue to consider several legislative and regulatory proposals with respect to ghg emissions. the economic and operational impact of climate change legislation on nextera energy and fpl depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the allowed emissions, whether emission allowances will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance. if and until legislation is enacted and implementing regulations are adopted, the economic and operational impact (either positive or negative) on nextera energy and fpl cannot be determined, but could be ma terial. meanwhile, the epa is implementing regulatory action under the clean air act to address climate change. in 2009, the epa issued a final endangerment finding under section 202(a) of the clean air act that the current and projected concentrations of ghg in the atmosphere threaten the public health and welfare of current and future generations. the final finding noted that, among other things, climate change is expected to result in an increase in electricity demand, especially supply for peak demand, a potentially adverse impact on hydropower resources as well as the potential risk of serious adverse effects on energy infrastructure from extreme weather events. in april 2010, the epa and the u.s. department of transportation issued a final rule under the clean air act to regulate ghg emissions from light duty vehicles. the final light duty vehicle rule applies to new passenger vehicles effective january 2011 which triggers certain permitting requirements under the clean air act for any new or modified stationary sources of ghg, including power plants, that exceed certain ghg emissions levels. in may 2010, the epa released a final rule under the clean air act to tailor requirements for ghg emissions which increased applicability thresholds for major sources of ghg emissions. new facilities emitting 100,000 tons per year (tpy) or more of ghg and modifications to existing facilities resulting in an increase of ghg emissions of 75,000 tpy or more will have to perform a best available control technology review and, based on that review, may have to add additional emissions control equipment or implement energy efficiency projects. several petitioners have challenged the epa's ghg regulations and requested a stay of the rules which the d.c. circuit denied in december 20 10. the case is pending review by the d.c. circuit; the timing and ultimate outcome of which is uncertain at this time. in december 2010, the epa announced that it will propose new source performance standards (nsps) for both new or modified boilers and for existing facilities no earlier than july 2011. the epa plans to finalize the nsps by may 2012. in 2009, the epa issued a final rule for mandatory reporting of ghg emissions from facilities with emissions of 25,000 tpy or more, which includes all of fpl's and nextera energy resources' fossil plants. affected facilities began collecting data in january 2010 and the first emissions report is due march 31, 2011 for the 2010 period. in december 2010, the epa issued a final rule governing electrical transmission and distribution equipment use which requires owners/operators of electric power transmission and distribution equipment that contains a threshold volume of sulfurhexaflouride and/or perfluorocarbons to monitor such emissions from electric power transmission and distribution systems. affected operators, including fpl, began collecting data in january 2011 and the first emissions report is due march 31, 2012 for the 2011 period. 15 based on the most recent reference data available from government sources, nextera energy is among the lowest emitters, among electric generators, of ghg in the united states measured by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of carbon dioxide (co 2 ) per megawatt-hour (mwh) of generation. however, the legislative and regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on fpl's and nextera energy resources' generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to nextera energy and fpl could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted or specific implementation rules adopted. in anticipation of the potential for further imposition of ghg emission limits on the electric industry in the future, nextera energy has taken a leadership role in the debate of climate change regulation and is involved in several climate change initiatives, including, but not limited to, the following: voluntary reporting of its ghg emissions and climate change strategy through the carbon disclosure project (an investor-led initiative to identify climate change impacts on publicly-traded companies); participation in the u.s. climate action partnership (an alliance made up of a diverse group of u.s.-based businesses and environmental organizations, which in january 2009 issued the blueprint for legislative action, a set of legislative principles and recommendations to address global climate change and the reduction of ghg emissions); participation in the clinton global initiative (an organization which seeks to foster shared commitment by individuals, businesses and governments to confront major world issues and achieve real change); participated in the epa's climate leaders program to reduce ghg intensity in the united states 18% by 2012, including reporting of emissions data annually. during 2008, nextera energy met its commitment to achieve a 2008 target emissions rate reduction of 18% below a 2001 baseline emission rate measured in pounds per mwh. this program was discontinued in 2009 by the epa in response to the epa's mandatory ghg reporting rule requirement; supporting edison electric institute's climate change framework, which supports the concept of mandatory legislation capping carbon emissions economy wide and recommends, among other things, an 80% reduction of carbon emissions from current levels by 2050; and focusing on customer energy efficiency and conservation through programs such as energy smart florida and earthera renewable energy trust. nextera energy resources' plants operate in many states and regions that have developed or are in the process of developing legislation to reduce ghg emissions, including, but not limited to, the following: rps, currently in place in approximately 30 states and the district of columbia, require electricity providers in the state or district to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources. these standards vary, but the majority include requirements to meet 10% to 25% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025. the regional greenhouse gas initiative (rggi) is a ghg reduction initiative whereby ten northeast and mid-atlantic member states have enacted laws and adopted regulations that establish a cap-and-trade program for covered electric generating units in connecticut, delaware, maine, new hampshire, new jersey, new york, vermont, maryland, massachusetts and rhode island. rggi members have agreed to stabilize power plant co 2 emissions at 2009 levels through the end of 2014 and to further reduce the sector's emissions another 10% by the end of 2018. the rggi ghg reduction requirements affect 12 nextera energy resources' fossil electric generating units, requiring those electric generating units to reduce emissions or to acquire co 2 allowances for emis sions of co 2 . based on nextera energy resources' clean generating portfolio in the rggi marketplace, nextera energy resources experienced a positive impact on earnings in 2009 and 2010 and expects that the requirements will have a positive overall impact on nextera energy resources' earnings in 2011. in the fourth quarter of 2010, the rggi participating states began efforts to support the 2012 program review called for in the rggi memorandum of understanding, which will be a comprehensive evaluation including program success, program impacts, additional reductions, electricity imports and associated emissions leakage, and offsets. the western climate initiative (wci) is a ghg reduction initiative with a goal of reducing co 2 emissions by 15% below 2005 levels by 2020 for participants (arizona, california, oregon, montana, new mexico, washington and utah, as well as british columbia, manitoba, ontario and quebec, canada). due to concerns about the economic impacts of ghg reductions programs, some states and provinces are reconsidering their commitment to the wci. california greenhouse gas regulation (cggr) - california has enacted legislation to reduce ghg emissions in the state to 1990 emissions levels by 2020. in december 2010, pursuant to the legislation, the california air resources board approved a multi-sector ghg cap-and-trade program along with other ghg reduction measures which will begin in 2012. based on nextera energy resources' clean generating portfolio in california, the impact of complying with the cggr is not expected to have a material adverse impact on the financial statements of nextera energy. 16 clean air act mercury/nickel rule - since 2005, the epa has made several attempts to regulate nickel emissions from oil-fired generating units and mercury emissions from coal-fired generating units. in 2008, the d.c. circuit required the epa to proceed with rulemaking under section 112 of the clean air act to promulgate a utility maximum achievable control technology (mact) rule by november 2011 requiring reductions of hazardous air pollutants from coal-fired and oil-fired generating units' emissions. depending upon the final outcome of the epa's rulemaking, it is possible that certain oil-fired and coal-fired units at fpl and nextera energy resources may be required to add additional pollution control equipment. clean air interstate rule (cair)/clean air transport rule (transport rule) - in 2005, the epa published a final cair that requires sulfur dioxide (so 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (nox) emissions reductions from electric generating units in 28 states, where the emissions from electric generating units are deemed to be transported to downwind states. in 2008, the d.c. circuit found significant flaws in the rule and remanded it back to the epa for further rulemaking. because the d.c. circuit chose not to vacate the rule, nextera energy and fpl were required to begin complying with the current version of the cair on january 1, 2009 and must continue to comply until the epa rewrites the rule. in july 2010, the epa released the proposed rewrite of the cair, known as the transport rule, to limit emissions of so 2 and nox from power plants in 31 eastern states and the district of columbia and provides for a new allocation methodology for emission allowances and revised emissions reduction limits beginning in 2012. nextera energy has submitted comments on the transport rule to the epa and the final rule is expected to be published no earlier than the summer of 2011. the impact of complying with the current version of the cair has not had, and, along with compliance with the transport rule as currently proposed, is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the financial statements of nextera energy and fpl. clean air visibility rule - in 2005, the epa issued the clean air visibility rule to address regional haze in areas which include certain national park and wilderness areas through the installation of bart for electric generating units. bart eligible units include those built between 1962 and 1977 that have the potential to emit more than 250 tons of visibility-impairing pollution per year. the rule requires states to complete bart determinations and allows for a five-year period to implement pollution controls. the final bart requirements of the clean air visibility rule affect fpl's turkey point fossil units nos. 1 and 2 and one of nextera energy resources' units located in maine and are not expected to have a material adverse effect on th e financial statements of nextera energy or fpl. in 2007, the fdep began the process to expand the number of units covered under the "reasonable further progress" provision of the clean air visibility rule in an effort to reduce emissions of so 2 in areas which include certain national park and wilderness areas. in 2010, the fdep rescinded the reasonable further progress provision from florida's plan to address regional haze and instead will rely on the epa's transport rule and proposed boiler mact rules to demonstrate reasonable progress toward the visibility goals for national park and wilderness areas. clean water act section 316(b) - in 2004, the epa issued a rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act to address the location, design, construction and capacity of intake structures at existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems. the rule would have required nextera energy to install controls or implement operational changes to reduce the impact on aquatic organisms from such water intake systems. a number of environmental groups and six northeastern states appealed the rule and, in 2007, the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit issued a decision eliminating several of the compliance alternatives, including the use of a "cost-benefit test" and restoration measures, from consideration and remanded the rule to the epa for furth er rulemaking. in 2009, the u.s. supreme court ruled that the use of a cost-benefit test is an acceptable alternative under section 316(b) of the clean water act for determining the best technology available for minimizing impacts to aquatic organisms from the use of large cooling water intake systems. the epa is working on new rulemaking which is not expected to be proposed before the spring of 2011 with the final rule in the summer of 2012. depending upon the final outcome of the rulemaking by the epa, eight of fpl's generating facilities (cape canaveral, cutler, fort myers, lauderdale, port everglades, sanford, riviera and st. lucie) and three nextera energy resources plants (seabrook, point beach and an oil-fired plant in maine) may be required to add additional controls or make operational changes to comply with the rule, the economic and operational impact of which cannot be determined at this time, but could be material. prior to the passage of a new rule, tates are continuing to utilize best professional judgment in the application of section 316(b) compliance requirements. through december 31, 2010, five fpl facilities undergoing permit renewals have been or may be required to install fish impingement controls with fish return systems. revisions to the national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for ozone - in 2008, the epa issued a final rule establishing a new standard for ground-level ozone at 75 parts per billion (ppb). after reconsideration, in january 2010, the epa issued a proposed revision to the naaqs for ground-level ozone requesting comments on revising the 2008 primary standard to a more restrictive primary standard of between 60 ppb and 70 ppb. it is anticipated that the epa will issue a final rule no earlier than the summer of 2011 which will require states to (i) identify areas which will be designated as non-attainment for ground-level ozone within 120 days of the final rule, (ii) develop plans to meet the attainment standard by 2013 and (iii) begin meeting the attainment sta ndard between 2014 and 2031 based on non-attainment severity. generating facilities affected by the new ozone standard may be required to install additional pollution control equipment. a review of recent ozone monitoring data indicates that some or all of fpl's generating facilities may be located in non-attainment areas, or areas projected to be in non-attainment depending on the primary standard adopted, and some of those generating facilities may be required to install additional pollution control equipment. 17 executive officers of nextera energy (a) name age position effective date christopher a. bennett 52 executive vice president &amp; chief strategy, policy &amp; business process improvement officer of nextera energy february 15, 2008 (b) paul i. cutler 51 treasurer of nextera energy treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of nextera energy and fpl february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 f. mitchell davidson 48 chief executive officer of nextera energy resources president of nextera energy resources july 29, 2008 december 15, 2006 moray p. dewhurst 55 vice chairman and chief of staff of nextera energy august 17, 2009 shaun j. francis 39 executive vice president, human resources of nextera energy executive vice president, human resources of fpl august 16, 2010 january 31, 2011 chris n. froggatt 53 vice president of nextera energy controller and chief accounting officer of nextera energy october 19, 2009 february 27, 2010 lewis hay, iii 55 chief executive officer of nextera energy chairman of nextera energy and fpl june 11, 2001 january 1, 2002 joseph t. kelliher 50 executive vice president, federal regulatory affairs of nextera energy may 18, 2009 robert l. mcgrath 57 executive vice president, engineering, construction &amp; corporate services of nextera energy and fpl february 21, 2005 (b) manoochehr k. nazar 56 executive vice president, nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of nextera energy executive vice president, nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of fpl january 1, 2010 january 15, 2010 armando j. olivera 61 chief executive officer of fpl president of fpl july 17, 2008 june 24, 2003 armando pimentel, jr. 48 chief financial officer of nextera energy and fpl executive vice president, finance of nextera energy and fpl may 3, 2008 february 15, 2008 (b) james l. robo 48 president and chief operating officer of nextera energy december 15, 2006 antonio rodriguez 68 executive vice president, power generation division of nextera energy executive vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2007 (b) july 1, 1999 (b) charles e. sieving 38 executive vice president &amp; general counsel of nextera energy executive vice president of fpl assistant secretary of nextera energy december 1, 2008 january 1, 2009 may 21, 2010 (a) information is as of february 24, 2011. executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his present position for five years or more and his employment history is continuous. mr. bennett was vice president, business strategy &amp; policy of nextera energy from july 2007 to february 2008. from september 1995 to june 2007, mr. bennett was vice president of dean &amp; company, a management consulting and investment firm. mr. davidson was senior vice president of business management of nextera energy resources from march 2005 to december 2006. mr. dewhurst was vice president, finance and chief financial officer of nextera energy and senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl from july 2001 to may 2008. mr. francis was general manager of human resources for ge transportation, a global technology leader and supplier to the railroad, marine, drilling, mining and wind power industries from february 2008 to august 2010. from february 2006 to february 2008, mr. francis served as general manager of human resources of ge equipment services, a global technology leader in the transportation industry including rail cars, sea containers, tractor trailers, and penske truck and leasing. mr. froggatt was the vice president and treasurer of pinnacle west capital corporation, a public utility holding company, and its major subsidiary, arizona public service company (aps), a regulated utility, from december 2008 to october 2009. from october 2002 to december 2008, he was vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of aps. mr. hay was also chief executive officer of fpl from january 2002 to july 2008. mr. hay was president of nextera energy from june 2001 to december 2006. mr. kelliher was chairman of the ferc from july 2005 to january 2009. mr. nazar was the chief nuclear officer of nextera energy from january 2009 to december 2009. he was senior vice president and chief nuclear officer of fpl from november 2007 to january 2009. from october 2003 to november 2007, mr. nazar was senior vice president &amp; chief nuclear officer of american electric power company, inc., a public utility holding company. mr. pimentel was a partner of deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, from june 1998 to february 2008. mr. robo was president of nextera energy resources from july 2002 to december 2006. he was also vice president, corporate development and strategy of nextera energy from march 2002 to december 2006. mr. sieving was also general counsel of fpl from january 2009 to may 2010 . mr. sieving was executive vice president, general counsel and secretary of paetec holding corp., a communications services and solutions provider, from february 2007 to november 2008 and was primarily responsible for all legal and regulatory matters. prior to that, mr. sieving was a partner in the corporate, securities and finance practice group of hogan lovells us llp, an international law firm, with which he had been associated since october 1998. (b) nextera energy title changed from vice president to executive vice president effective may 23, 2008. where applicable, fpl title changed from senior vice president to executive vice president effective july 17, 2008. 18 item 1a. risk factors risks relating to nextera energy's and fpl's business the business, financial results, financial condition and prospects of nextera energy and fpl are subject to a variety of significant risks, many of which are beyond their control. the following is a description of some of the important risk factors that may adversely affect the business and may cause the actual results of nextera energy and fpl in future periods to differ substantially from those that nextera energy or fpl currently expects or seeks. many of the risks set forth below may only apply to a portion of the businesses of subsidiaries of nextera energy, such as its fpl business, its wind or solar generation development businesses, its transmission business or its gas infrastructure business. accordingly, references to nextera energy below in some instances refer to the applicabl e businesses or subsidiaries of nextera energy. risks specifically applicable to fpl generally include a reference to fpl. nextera energy's and fpl's financial results may be adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their businesses. the operations of nextera energy and fpl are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. this extensive regulatory framework, some but not all of which is more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things, nextera energy's and fpl's industry, rate and cost structure, operation of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities, decommissioning costs, transmission reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. in their business planning and in the management of their operations, nextera energy and fpl must address the effects of regulation on their businesses and proposed changes in the regulatory framework. significant changes in the nature of the regulation of nextera energy's and fpl's businesses could require changes to their business planning and management of their businesses and could adversely affect their financial results, including, but not limited to, the value of their assets. nextera energy and fpl must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. should nextera energy or fpl be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on nextera energy or fpl, nextera energy's and fpl's businesses could be adversely affected. nextera energy's and fpl's financial results could be negatively affected if they or their rate-regulated businesses are unable to recover, in a timely manner, certain costs, a return on certain assets or an appropriate return on capital from customers through regulated rates and, in the case of fpl, cost recovery clauses. fpl is a regulated entity subject to the jurisdiction of the fpsc over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers, issuance of securities, transfers of some utility assets and facilities to affiliates, and aspects of the siting and operation of its generating plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. lone star, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of nextera energy, is a regulated entity subject to the jurisdiction of the puct over a wide range of business activities. the fpsc and puct have the authority to disallow recovery by fpl and lone star, respectively, of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. the regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the politic al, regulatory and economic environment in florida, texas and elsewhere, can restrict nextera energy's and fpl's ability to grow earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels. nextera energy's and fpl's financial results could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or an appropriate return on capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses or other regulatory mechanisms. decisions of the fpsc and the puct have been and, in the future, may be adversely affected by the local and national political, regulatory and economic environment and may adversely affect the financial results of nextera energy and fpl. these decisions may require, for example, nextera energy or fpl to cancel or delay planned development activities and to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures which could reduce the earnings potential of nextera energy and fpl. nextera energy and fpl are subject to federal regulatory compliance and proceedings which have significant compliance costs and expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. in addition to the regulatory risks that may affect nextera energy and fpl described above, the extensive federal regulation of the operations of nextera energy and fpl exposes the companies to significant and increasing compliance costs. nextera energy and fpl also are subject to costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties for non-compliance. as an example, under the energy policy act of 2005, nextera energy and fpl, as owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject nextera energy and fpl to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. &# 160;if fpl or nextera energy is found not to be in compliance with these standards, it may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. 19 nextera energy and fpl may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity . from time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting nextera energy and fpl. adverse press coverage and other adverse statements may result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from nextera energy's and fpl's businesses. addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can also have a negative impact on the reputation of nextera energy and fpl and on the morale and performance of their employees, which could adver sely affect their financial results. nextera energy's and fpl's businesses are subject to risks associated with legislative and regulatory initiatives. nextera energy and fpl operate in a changing market environment influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, for example, initiatives regarding regulation, deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry and regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets. nextera energy and its subsidiaries will need to adapt to any changes and may face increasing costs and competitive pressures in doing so. nextera energy produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable fuels, such as nuclear, natural gas and wind, operates in the competitive segment of the electric industry, has targeted the competitive segments of the electric industry for some of its future growth and relies on the efficient operation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets. nextera energy's financial results and growth prospects could be adver sely affected as a result of new, or changes in, laws, regulations or interpretations, or other regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, those that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry or the effective operation of the commodities trading or derivatives markets. nextera energy and fpl are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase their cost of operations and may expose them to liabilities. nextera energy and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, climate change, ghg, including, but not limited to, co 2 emissions, waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, natural resources, health, safety and rps that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs or limit or eliminate certa in operations. there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new legislation, the current trend toward more stringent standards, and stricter and more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. for example, among other potential or pending changes described elsewhere in this report, the process of hydraulic fracturing or similar technologies to drill for natural gas and related compounds used by nextera energy's gas infrastructure business are currently being debated for potential regulation at the state and federal levels. violations of current or future laws, rules and regulations could expose nextera energy and fpl to regulatory proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. nextera energy's and fpl's businesses could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of ghg emissions. federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on ghg, including, but not limited to, co 2 and methane, from electric generating units storing and combusting fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. the potential effects of such ghg emission limits on nextera energy's and fpl's electric generating units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of ghg emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, a nd the range of available compliance alternatives. while nextera energy's and fpl's electric generating units emit ghgs at a lower rate of emissions than most of the u.s. electric generation sector, the financial results of nextera energy and fpl could be adversely affected to the extent that any new ghg emission limits, among other potential impacts: create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; make some of nextera energy's and fpl's electric generating units uneconomical to operate in the long term; require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or 20 affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. the construction, operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities involve risks that could result in fines or the closure of nuclear generation facilities owned by nextera energy or fpl and in increased costs and capital expenditures. together, fpl and nextera energy's other subsidiaries own, or hold undivided interests in, eight nuclear generation units in four states. the construction, operation and maintenance of the facilities involve inherent risks, including, but not limited to, the following: the nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as risks relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. although nextera energy and fpl maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks, the cost of decommissioning the facilities could exceed the amount available in the decommissioning funds, and the liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the united states, nextera energy and fp l could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the construction of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities, and the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, and such requirements are subject to change. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a nuclear generation facility, or to take both of these actions, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require nextera energy and fpl to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities. in addition, any serious nuclear incident occurring at a nextera ener gy or fpl plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. an incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the nrc to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, which could increase costs and result in additional capital expenditures. the operating licenses for nextera energy's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities extend through at least 2030. if any of nextera energy's or fpl's nuclear generation units cannot be operated through the end of their respective operating licenses, nextera energy or fpl may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, which could adversely affect their financial results. terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of nuclear generation facilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs which are difficult or impossible to predict. nextera energy's and fpl's operating results could suffer if they do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, generation, transmission, distribution or other facilities on schedule or within budget. nextera energy and fpl may incur significant costs for development of projects, including, but not limited to, preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before it can be established whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, capable of being financed or, in some cases, approved for regulatory recoveries. the ability of nextera energy and fpl to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their generation, transmission, distribution, gas infrastructure and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms, delays in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses, permits, rights-of-way and other approvals, disputes involving contractors, labor organizati ons, land owners and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors or failures. if any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed or is delayed or subject to cost overruns, nextera energy's and fpl's operational and financial results may be adversely affected. in any such event, among other matters, nextera energy and fpl could be subject to additional costs, which, in some cases, may not be approved for or recoverable through regulatory mechanisms, and could result in delay or termination payments and other damages under committed contracts, loss of tax credits and the write-off of their investment in the project. 21 the operation and maintenance of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involve significant risks that could adversely affect the financial results of nextera energy and fpl. the operation and maintenance of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involve many risks, such as those identified elsewhere in these risk factors and those arising due to: risks of start-up operations; failures in the supply, availability or transportation of fuel; the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and droughts; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines; availability of replacement equipment; risks of human injury from energized equipment; availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water discharge requirements; inability to properly manage or mitigate known equipment defects throughout nextera energy's and fpl's generation fleets and transmission and distribution systems; use of new or unproven technology; and dependence on a specific fuel source. the occurrence of any of these effects or events could result in, among other matters, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines, replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet contractual obligations. insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses. breakdown or failure of an operating facility of nextera energy, for example, may prevent nextera energy from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in some situations, could result in termination of the agreement or subject nextera energy to liability for liquidated damages. the operation and maintenance of nextera energy's gas infrastructure and power transmission businesses also are subject to many of the forego ing risks or substantially similar risks. nextera energy's competitive energy business is subject to development and operating risks that could limit the revenue growth of this business and have other negative effects on nextera energy's financial results. to operate successfully in the competitive wholesale energy markets, nextera energy must, among other things, efficiently develop and operate its generating assets, procure adequate supplies of fuel and associated transportation at acceptable prices, successfully and timely complete project restructuring activities, maintain the qualifying facility status of certain projects and complete its energy deliveries in a timely manner. its ability to do so is subject to a variety of risks. in addition to risks such as those identified elsewhere in these risk factors, risks that specifically affect nextera energy's success in competitive wholesale markets and in the gas infrastructure business include: nextera energy may face increased competition, including, but not limited to, from other and new sources of power generation, excess generation capacity and shifting demand for power, legal and regulatory developments and general economic conditions. risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project agreements may impede development activities. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. nextera energy's inability or failure to hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair nextera energy's financial results. a portion of nextera energy's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. as a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis, which may increase the volatility of nextera energy's financial results. 22 nextera energy depends upon power transmission and natural gas transportation facilities owned and operated by others. if transmission or transportation of sufficient power or natural gas is unavailable or disrupted, nextera energy's ability to sell and deliver its wholesale power or natural gas may be limited. nextera energy's competitive energy business is dependent on continued public policy support and governmental support for renewable energy, particularly wind and solar projects. nextera energy's competitive energy business, nextera energy resources, depends heavily on government policies that support renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing wind and solar energy projects. the federal government, a majority of the 50 u.s. states and portions of canada and spain provide incentives, such as tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, that support the sale of energy from renewable sources, such as wind and solar energy. the applicable legislation often grants the relevant state public utility commission the ability to reduce electric supply companies' obligations to meet the requirements in specified circumstances. any reduction or elimination of existing supportive policies, including, but not limited to, rps or feed-in tariffs, and ultimately any failure to renew or increase existing supportive policies, could result in less demand for generation from nextera energy's wind and solar energy projects. the recovery act includes, among other things, provisions that allow companies building wind facilities the option to choose among the following three investment cost recovery mechanisms: (1) ptcs which were extended for wind facilities placed in service prior to 2013, (2) itcs of 30% of the cost for qualifying wind facilities placed in service prior to 2013, or (3) an election to receive a cash grant of 30% of the cost of qualifying wind facilities placed in service in 2009, 2010 or 2011, or if construction began prior to december 31, 2011 and the wind facility is placed in service prior to 2013. an election to receive a cash grant of 30% in lieu of the 30% itc also applies to the cost of qualifying solar facilities placed in service in either 2009, 2010 or 2011, or if construction began prior to december 31, 2011 and the solar facility is placed in service prior to 2017. in ord er for nextera energy to continue to economically develop wind and solar energy projects in the future, it will need to utilize the investment cost recovery mechanisms currently available as well as requiring similar public policy support in the future. nextera energy and fpl are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, counterparties and vendors. nextera energy and fpl are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, counterparties and vendors, may affect the ability of some customers, counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts. if any counterparty or vendor fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, nextera energy and fpl may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other proj ects, and/or a disruption of their operations. if a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, nextera energy and fpl may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. nextera energy's and fpl's financial results may continue to be negatively affected by slower customer growth and customer usage. nextera energy's and fpl's results of operations are affected by the growth in customer accounts and by customer usage, each of which directly influences the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities. a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of retail customers or in non-weather related customer usage, such as that which has occurred over the past several years, could adversely affect nextera energy's and fpl's results of operations. customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of nextera energy and fpl, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management goals, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population, job and income growth, housing starts and new business formation. nextera energy's and fpl's financi al results may also be adversely affected by fpl's ability to negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in florida. as a result, nextera energy and fpl may make, but not fully realize the anticipated benefits from, significant investments and expenditures, which could adversely affect their financial results. nextera energy's and fpl's financial results are subject to risks associated with weather conditions, such as the impact of severe weather. nextera energy's and fpl's financial results can be negatively affected by changes in the weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas, affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities, and can affect the production of electricity at power generating facilities, including, but not limited to, wind, solar and hydro-powered facilities. for example, the level of wind resource affects the results of operations of wind generating facilities. since the levels of wind, solar and hydro resources are variable and difficult to predict, nextera energy's results of operations for individual wind, solar and hydro facilities vary or may vary significantly from period to period depending on the level of available resources. to the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the returns from these facilities may be less than expected. 23 in addition, nextera energy's and fpl's financial results would be affected by the impact of severe weather, such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, which can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect fuel supply, and require nextera energy and fpl to incur additional costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities. as a company that provides electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of florida, fpl operates in an area that historically has been more prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. a disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado, or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent nextera energy and fpl from operating their busines ses in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. at fpl and other regulated businesses of nextera energy, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred would result in a negative financial impact on nextera energy and fpl. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect nextera energy's and fpl's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of nextera energy and fpl and exert downward pressure on the market price of nextera energy's common stock. nextera energy and fpl rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets, such as conditions that have existed in the recent past, could increase nextera energy's and fpl's cost of capital. if nextera energy or fpl is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its businesses and could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility. the market price and trading volume of nextera energy's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general stock market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business, growth prospects and financing strategies of nextera energy and its subsidiaries. although nextera energy's competitive energy subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. the inability of nextera energy's subsidiaries to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific financing for electric-generating and other energy facilities on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by nextera energy and/or capital holdings in the future. the inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral, any of which actions could negatively affect nextera energy's financial results, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for nextera energy or its subsidiaries. nextera energy's, capital holdings' and fpl's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may adversely affect nextera energy's and fpl's liquidity, limit the ability of nextera energy and fpl to grow their businesses, and increase interest costs, while the liquidity of the companies also could be impaired by the inability of their credit providers to maintain their current credit ratings or to fund their credit commitments. the inability of nextera energy, capital holdings and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact nextera energy's and fpl's ability to grow their businesses and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, and political, legislative and regulatory actions. there can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of nextera energy, capital holdings and fpl will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. the inability of nextera energy's, capital holdings' and fpl's credit providers to maintain credit ratings acceptable under various agreements, or to fund their credit commitments, could require nextera energy, capital holdings or fpl, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral. 24 the use of derivative contracts by nextera energy and fpl in the normal course of business could result in financial losses or the payment of margin cash collateral that could adversely affect their financial results and liquidity. nextera energy and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the over-the-counter (otc) markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for nextera energy to engage in trading and marketing activities. nextera energy could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these derivative instruments or if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments under these derivative instruments. nextera energy also could suffer a reduction in operating cash flows as a result of the requirement to post margin cash collateral. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. although nextera energy and fp l execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the otc markets, depending on the most favorable credit and market execution factors, there is greater volatility and less liquidity in transactions executed in otc markets and, as a result, nextera energy and fpl may not be able to execute such transactions in times of market volatility. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments. in addition, fpl's use of such instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the fpsc. nextera energy provides full energy and capacity requirement services, which include, for example, load-following services and various ancillary services, primarily to distribution utilities to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. the supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after nextera energy has committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. if the supply costs are not favorable, nextera energy's operating costs could increase and adversely affect its results of operations. nextera energy is an active participant in energy markets. the liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in the company's ability to manage risks in these operations. over the past several years, other market participants have ceased or significantly reduced their activities in energy markets as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to, government investigations, changes in market design, and deteriorating credit quality. liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit, and other factors. as a result, reductions in liquidity may restrict the ability of nextera energy to manage its risks, and this could negatively affect nextera energy's financial results. nextera energy and fpl have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms, that may not work as planned. risk management tools and metrics such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. if price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, the risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, nextera energy and fpl cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on their financial results and liquidity. nextera energy's and fpl's financial results and liquidity could be materially adversely affected if the rules implementing the dodd-frank act broaden the scope of its provisions regarding the regulation of otc financial derivatives and make them applicable to nextera energy and fpl. the dodd-frank act was enacted into law in july 2010 which, among other things, provides for the regulation of the otc derivatives market. while the legislation is broad and detailed, substantial portions of the legislation require implementing rules to be adopted by federal governmental agencies including, but not limited to, the sec and the u.s. commodity futures trading commission (cftc). nextera energy and fpl cannot predict the final rules that will be adopted to implement the otc derivatives market provisions of the dodd-frank act. those rules could negatively affect nextera energy's and fpl's ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks, which could have a material adverse effect on nextera energy's and fpl's financial results. the rules also could require nextera energy resources to restructure part of its energy marketing a nd trading operations or to discontinue certain portions of its business. in addition, if the rules require nextera energy and fpl to post cash collateral with respect to swap transactions, nextera energy's and fpl's liquidity could be materially adversely affected, and their ability to enter into otc derivatives to hedge commodity and interest rate risks could be significantly limited. reporting and compliance requirements of the rules also could significantly increase operating costs and expose nextera energy and fpl to penalties for non-compliance. nextera energy's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. nextera energy is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry in general. in addition, nextera energy may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. 25 nextera energy may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to nextera energy or if nextera energy is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. nextera energy is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. substantially all of nextera energy's consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. nextera energy's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to nextera energy. the subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can fund nextera energy. nextera energy's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide nextera energy with funds for its payment obligations. in addition, the dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. the future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of nextera energy's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. nextera energy guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than fpl, through guarantee agreements with capital holdings. these guarantees may require nextera energy to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when nextera energy is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations or to pay dividends. in addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, nextera energy's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary' creditors. changes in tax laws, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could adversely affect nextera energy's and fpl's financial results, financial condition and liquidity. nextera energy's and fpl's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities requires significant judgments and the use of estimates. amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations, financial condition and results of operations of nextera energy and its subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, fpl, as well as the resolution of audit issues r aised by taxing authorities. ultimate resolution of income tax matters may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities which could negatively affect nextera energy's and fpl's financial results, financial condition and liquidity. nextera energy's and fpl's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in an adverse impact to their reputation and/or the financial results of the retail business. nextera energy's and fpl's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. nextera energy's and fpl's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. if a significant breach occurred, the reputation of nextera energy and fpl could be adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, customer information could be used for identity theft purposes, nextera energy and fpl would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or nextera energy and fpl could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may hav e a negative impact on the businesses and/or nextera energy's and fpl's financial results. a failure in nextera energy's and fpl's operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair their liquidity, disrupt their businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information and adversely affect their financial results. nextera energy's and fpl's businesses are highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, and cross numerous and diverse markets. due to the size, scope and geographical reach of nextera energy's and fpl's businesses, and due to the complexity of the process of power generation, transmission and distribution, the development and maintenance of nextera energy's and fpl's operational systems and infrastructure is challenging. nextera energy's and fpl's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside, their control, such as operator error, severe weather or terrorist activities. any such failure or disabling event could adversely affec t nextera energy's and fpl's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their financial results and liquidity. 26 nextera energy and fpl add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues, the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the compani es' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. nextera energy and fpl also face the risks of operational failure, termination, or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt nextera energy's and fpl's businesses, or the businesses of third parties, may impact the operations of nextera energy and fpl in unpredictable ways and could adversely affect nextera energy's and fpl's financial results and liquidity. nextera energy and fpl are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. nextera energy's and fpl's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets, could be direct targets of, or indirectly affected by, such activities. terrorist acts or other similar events could harm nextera energy's and fpl's businesses by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power and by delaying their development and construction of new generating facilities and capital improvements to existing facilities. these events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenue and significant additional costs to repair and insure nextera energy's and fpl's assets, and could adversely affect nextera energy's and fpl's operations by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels. they could also impair nextera energy's and fpl's ability to raise capital by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity. nextera energy and fpl operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite nextera energy's and fpl's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. if nextera energy's or fpl's technology systems were to fail or be breached and be unable to recover in a timely way, nextera energy and fpl would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on nextera energy's and fpl's financial results. the implementation of security guidelines and measures and maintenance of insurance, to the extent available, addressing such activities could increase costs. these types of events could materially adversely affect nextera energy's and fpl's financial results. in addition, these types of events could require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect nextera energy's and fpl's reputation among customers and the public. a disruption of the regional electric transmission grid, natural gas pipeline infrastructure or other fuel sources, could negatively impact nextera energy's and fpl's businesses. because generation, transmission systems and natural gas pipelines are part of an interconnected system, nextera energy and fpl face the risk of possible loss of business due to a disruption caused by the impact of an event on the interconnected system (such as severe weather or a generator or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or a sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) within nextera energy's and fpl's systems or within a neighboring system. any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on nextera energy's and fpl's financial results. the ability of nextera energy and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. nextera energy's and fpl's insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses. the ability of nextera energy and fpl to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting their businesses, as well as by international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to nextera energy and fpl. a loss for which nextera energy and fpl are not fully insured could materially and adversely affect their financial results. nextera energy's and fpl's insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which the companies may be subject. 27 the businesses and financial results of nextera energy and fpl could be negatively affected by the lack of a qualified workforce, work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. nextera energy and fpl may not be able effectively and profitably to obtain new customers, or grow their customer base, service existing customers and meet their other business plan goals if they do not attract and retain a qualified workforce. the lack of a qualified workforce, including, for example, the loss or retirement of key executives and other employees, may adversely affect service and productivity and contribute to higher training and safety costs. over the next several years, a significant portion of nextera energy's and fpl's workforce, including, but not limited to, many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the nuclear generation facilities and electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire. such highly skilled individuals may not be able to be replaced quickly due to the technically complex work they perform. pers onnel costs also may increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of customers and revenue. poor market performance and other economic factors could affect nextera energy's and fpl's nuclear decommissioning funds' asset value or defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may adversely affect nextera energy's and fpl's liquidity and financial results. nextera energy and fpl are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. in addition, nextera energy sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of nextera energy and its subsidiaries. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds or in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. moreover, nextera energy's and fpl's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since, as interest rates decrease the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have an adverse effect on nextera energy's and fpl's liquidity and financial results. increasing costs associated with health care plans may adversely affect nextera energy's and fpl's financial results. the costs of providing health care benefits to employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years. nextera energy and fpl believe that their employee benefit costs, including, but not limited to, costs related to health care plans for employees and former employees, will continue to rise. the increasing costs and funding requirements associated with nextera energy's and fpl's health care plans may adversely affect the companies' financial results. the factors described above, as well as other information set forth in this report, which could materially adversely affect nextera energy's and fpl's businesses, financial condition, future financial results and/or liquidity should be carefully considered. the risks described above are not the only risks facing nextera energy and fpl. additional risks and uncertainties also may materially adversely affect nextera energy's or fpl's business, financial condition, future financial results and/or liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity - market risk sensitivity. 57risk factors 24 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on nee's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause nee's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of nee and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and nee and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nextera energy, inc. (hereafter, nee) is one of the largest electric power companies in north america, with over 41,000 mw of generating capacity in 24 states in the u.s. and 3 provinces in canada, and employing approximately 14,800 people as of december 31, 2011. nee provides retail and wholesale electric services to more than 4 million customers and owns generation, transmission and distribution facilities to support its services. it also purchases electric power for resale to its customers and provides risk management services related to power and gas consumption for a limited number of customers. nee is the largest generator in the u.s. of renewable energy from the wind and sun and owned approximately 18% of the installed base of u.s. wind power production capacity as of december 31, 2011. nee also produces electricity from solar facilities, and owns and operates one of the largest fleets of nuclear power stations in the u.s., with eight reactors at five sites located in four states, representing approximately 6% of u.s. nuclear power electric generating capacity as of december 31, 2011. nee's business strategy has emphasized the development, acquisition and operation of renewables, nuclear and natural gas-fired generation facilities in response to long-term federal policy trends supportive of zero and low air emissions sources of power. nee's generation fleet has significantly lower rates of emissions of co 2 , so 2 and nox than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry with approximately 93% of its 2011 generation, measured by mwh produced, coming from renewables, nuclear and natural gas-fired facilities. certain environmental attributes of nee's electric generating facilities, such as renewable energy credits, emissions reductions, offsets, allowances and the avoided emission of ghg pollutants, have been or likely will be sold or transferred to third parties, who are solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes. nee was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida and conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, florida power &amp; light company (hereafter, fpl) and nextera energy resources, llc (hereafter, neer). nextera energy capital holdings, inc. (hereafter, neech), another wholly-owned subsidiary of nee, owns and provides funding for neer's and nee's other operating subsidiaries, other than fpl and its subsidiaries. nee's two principal businesses also constitute nee's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes, as illustrated below: fpl is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in florida. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. based on generation. fpl is vertically integrated, with approximately 24,500 mw of generating capacity as of december 31, 2011. fpl's investments in its infrastructure since 2001, such as modernizing less efficient generating plants and upgrading its transmission and distribution systems, have allowed fpl to produce more energy with less fuel and fewer air emissions, and deliver service reliability that was among the best of the florida investor-owned utilities, all while providing residential and commercial bills that were among the lowest in florida and below the national average based on a rate per kwh as of july 2011. with 85% of its power generation coming from natural gas, nuclear and solar, fpl is also one of the cleanest electric utilities in the nation. based on 2011 information, fpl's emissions rates for co 2 , so 2 and nox were 36%, 84% and 72% lower, respectively, than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry. neer is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with approximately 16,600 mw of generating capacity across 22 states and 3 canadian provinces as of december 31, 2011. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources, including wind, solar and hydro. neer also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, owns a retail electricity provider serving customers in 13 states and the district of columbia and engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities. neech's other business activities are primarily conducted through fpl fibernet and lone star. fpl fibernet delivers wholesale and enterprise telecommunications services in florida and certain areas of the south central u.s. lone star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in texas, is constructing transmission lines and other associated facilities in texas. 4 table of contents nee seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors, as described in more detail in the following sections. nee's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both fpl and neer. management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities open to it and does not maintain any specific goal as to the relative size of the two businesses. however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by fpl and neer is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise. nee's operating subsidiaries i. fpl fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of nee. fpl is a rate-regulated electric utility and is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s based on generation. fpl, with 24,460 mw of generating capacity at december 31, 2011, supplies electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of florida, serving nearly 8.9 million people through approximately 4.6 million customer accounts. at december 31, 2011, fpl's service territory and plant locations are as follows (see item 2 - generating facilities): franchise agreements and competition fpl's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. municipalities and counties may form their own utility companies to provide service to their residents. in a few cases, the franchise agreement provides the municipality or county the right to buy the distribution assets serving local residents at the end of the agreement. however, during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30-years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and fpl has the right to offer electric service to residents. fpl currently holds 178 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2042. four of these franchise agreements expire in 2013 and 174 expire during the period 2014 through 2042. these franchise agreements cover approximately 83% of fpl's retail customer base in florida. negotiations are ongoing to renew the franchise agreements that expire in 2013. fpl considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. fpl also provides service to 11 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility, relying upon florida law for access to public rights of way. because any retail customer may elect to provide his/her own services, fpl effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. as a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since fpl's cost of service is generally substantially lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. changing technology and economic conditions could alter the favorable relative cost position that fpl currently enjoys; however, fpl seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of high reliability, low bills and excellent customer service. fpl also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. in 2011, 2010 and 2009, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 3%, 3% and 4%, respectively, of fpl's total operating revenues. the fpsc promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam generating capacity by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, including fpl, to issue a request for proposal (rfp) except when the fpsc determines that an exception from the rfp process is in the public interest. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and 5 table of contents demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. new nuclear power plants are exempt from the rfp requirement. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations below regarding fpl's planned two additional nuclear units at turkey point. customers and revenue fpl's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within florida. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues and customer accounts by customer class were as follows: for both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that fpl may charge are controlled by regulation, by the fpsc in the case of retail customers, and by the ferc in the case of wholesale customers. in general, under u.s. and florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including an appropriate rate of return on capital employed. however, the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed and there can be no guarantee that fpl will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all or any portion of its costs through regulated rates. see discussion of regulation at fpl regulation - fpl rate regulation below. as noted above, fpl seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. a common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the cost per 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer. fpl's 2011 average cost per 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was the lowest of the 55 electric utilities within florida as indicated below: 6 table of contents transmission and distribution fpl provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links all its generation facilities to all its customers. fpl also maintains interconnection facilities with neighboring utilities and wholesale power providers, enabling it to buy and sell wholesale electricity outside its service territory and to enhance the reliability of its own network and support the reliability of neighboring networks. fpl's transmission system carries high voltage electricity from its generating facilities to substations where the electricity is stepped down to lower voltage levels and is sent through the distribution system to its customers. a key element of fpl's strategy is to provide highly reliable service to its customers. the transmission and distribution system is susceptible to interruptions or outages from a wide variety of sources including weather, animal interference, traffic accidents, equipment failure and many others, and fpl seeks to reduce or eliminate outages where economically practical and to restore service rapidly in the event of an outage. a common benchmark for transmission and distribution system reliability is the system average interruption duration index (saidi), which represents the number of minutes the average customer is without power during a time period. during the five years ended 2010, fpl had the best average saidi of the florida investor-owned utilities. fpl system capability and load at december 31, 2011, fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 26,538 mw, of which 24,460 mw were from fpl-owned facilities (see item 2 - generating facilities) and 2,078 mw were available through purchased power agreements (see fpl sources of generation - purchased power below). occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. however, customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. the highest peak load fpl has served to date was 24,346 mw, which occurred on january 11, 2010. fpl had adequate resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand. fpl's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2012 is approximately 28%. this reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of available output from fpl's active generating units, purchased power agreements and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of demand side management programs, including load management which was estimated at december 31, 2011 to be capable of reducing demand by 1,817 mw, and energy efficiency and conservation programs. see fpl sources of generation - fossil operations and nuclear operations below regarding generation projects currently under construction. fpl sources of generation fpl relies upon a diverse mix of fuel sources for its generating facilities, along with purchased power, in order to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix by responding to market and industry developments. see descriptions of fossil, nuclear and solar operations below and a listing of fpl's generating facilities in item 2 - generating facilities. fpl's 2011 fuel mix based on mwh produced, including purchased power, was as follows: 7 table of contents fossil operations (natural gas, coal and oil) at december 31, 2011, fpl owned and operated 78 units that used fossil fuels such as natural gas and/or oil, and had a joint ownership interest in three coal units, which combined provided 21,455 mw of generating capacity for fpl. these fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity demand. fpl's natural gas plants require natural gas transportation, supply and storage. fpl has firm transportation contracts in place with four different transportation suppliers with expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2036 that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation at existing units. to the extent desirable, fpl also purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from these natural gas suppliers based on pipeline availability. fpl has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. fpl has an agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2013. see note 14 - contracts. with respect to its oil plants, fpl obtains its fuel requirements in the spot market. st. johns river power park (sjrpp) units nos. 1 and 2, in which fpl has a joint ownership interest, has a coal supply and transportation contract for all of the 2012 fuel needs and a portion of the 2013 and 2014 fuel needs for those units. all of the transportation requirements and a portion of the coal supply needs for scherer unit no. 4, the other coal unit in which fpl has a joint ownership interest, are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts. the remaining fuel requirements for these units will be obtained in the spot market. see note 14 - contracts. modernization projects. fpl is in the process of modernizing its cape canaveral and riviera beach power plants to high-efficiency natural gas-fired units and expects the units to be placed in service by june 2013 and by 2014, respectively. each modernized plant is expected to provide approximately 1,200 mw of capacity. in november 2011, fpl filed a need petition with the fpsc to modernize its port everglades power plant to a high-efficiency natural gas-fired unit. the modernized port everglades unit is expected to provide approximately 1,280 mw of capacity, be in service in 2016 and cost approximately $1.2 billion. the modernization of the port everglades plant is contingent upon, among other things, fpsc approval. an fpsc decision regarding the modernization of the port everglades plant is expected in late march 2012. nuclear operations at december 31, 2011, fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,970 mw. facility mw operating license expiration dates st. lucie unit no. 1 839 2036 st. lucie unit no. 2 745 2043 turkey point unit no. 3 693 2032 turkey point unit no. 4 693 2033 fpl has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from march 2012 through 2022. see note 14 - contracts. nrc regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the applicable operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 commencing in 2043. see management's discussion - critical accounting policies and estimates - nuclear decommissioning and fossil/solar dismantlement. projects to add additional capacity. fpl is in the process of adding approximately 450 mw to 490 mw of capacity at its existing nuclear units at st. lucie and turkey point, which is expected to result in significant fuel cost savings compared to other sources of generation over the lives of the units. the additional capacity is projected to be placed in service by 2013; approximately 31 mw were placed in service in may 2011 at st. lucie unit no. 2. as part of the conditions of certification by the fdep for the turkey point project, fpl was required to implement a monitoring plan in and around the turkey point cooling canals due to concerns over potential saltwater intrusion beyond fpl's property. monitoring under the plan includes collection of data prior to and after the additional capacity is placed in service. data for the first year has been collected and provided to the fdep. the ultimate results of the monitoring plan are uncertain, and the financial and operational impacts on fpl, if any, cannot be determined at this time. in 2008, the fpsc approved fpl's need petition for two additional nuclear units at its turkey point site. the two units combined are expected to add approximately 2,200 mw of capacity and have projected in-service dates between 2022 and 2023. additional approvals from other regulatory agencies will be required later in the development process. nuclear unit scheduled refueling outages. fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. the scheduled nuclear refueling outages 8 table of contents for 2012 are all expanded scope outages related to the addition of capacity at the existing nuclear units which are expected to require the unit to be removed from service for between 110 and 160 days. the following table summarizes each unit's current or next scheduled refueling outage: facility beginning of current or next scheduled refueling outage st. lucie unit no. 1 november 2011 st. lucie unit no. 2 august 2012 turkey point unit no. 3 february 2012 turkey point unit no. 4 november 2012 disposition of spent nuclear fuel. fpl's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to allow fpl to store spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. under the nuclear waste policy act of 1982, as amended (nuclear waste policy act), the doe is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. as required by the nuclear waste policy act, fpl is a party to contracts with the doe to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its nuclear units. the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. the doe did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the nuclear waste policy act. in 2009, fpl and certain nuclear plant joint owners entered into a settlement agreement (spent fuel settlement agreement) with the u.s. government agreeing to dismiss with prejudice lawsuits filed against the u.s. government seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from fpl's nuclear plants. the spent fuel settlement agreement permits fpl to make annual filings to recover certain spent fuel storage costs incurred by fpl which are payable by the u.s. government on an annual basis. in a separate lawsuit filed in 2011, fpl joined the nuclear energy institute and several other nuclear plant owners and operators in petitioning the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia (d.c. circuit) to challenge the doe's decision to continue to collect the nuclear waste fee, which petition is pending. fpl will continue to pay fees to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund pending the d.c. circuit's decision on the fee suspension petition. in march 2010, the doe filed a motion with the nrc to withdraw its license application for a nuclear waste repository at yucca mountain. the doe's withdrawal motion has been challenged and is being litigated before the nrc and the d.c. circuit. in light of the obama administration's decision not to proceed with the yucca mountain repository project, the doe established a blue ribbon commission on america's nuclear future (brc) to conduct a comprehensive review of policies for managing the back end of the nuclear fuel cycle and to provide recommendations for developing a safe, long-term solution to managing spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. in january 2012, the brc issued its report and recommendations which include a consent-based approach, working with all affected units of government, to siting future nuclear waste management facilities, creation of a new organization, independent of the doe, dedicated solely to assuring the safe storage and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste, providing access to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund for the purpose of nuclear waste storage and disposal and initiating prompt efforts to develop geologic disposal facilities, consolidated interim storage facilities and transportation to those facilities. the brc's recommendations are not expected to result in any immediate change to the nuclear waste management and disposal situation. recent nuclear developments. as a result of the impact of the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami on nuclear facilities in japan, the nrc established a task force to conduct a comprehensive review of processes and regulations relating to nuclear facilities in the u.s. to determine whether the nrc should make additional improvements to its regulatory system and to make recommendations to the nrc for its policy direction. in july 2011, the nrc task force released its recommendations to the nrc and, since then, the nrc staff presented certain conclusions based on their review of the task force recommendations, which conclusions have been approved by the nrc. the nrc staff's report concluded that none of the findings addressed by the task force recommendations rise to the level of an imminent hazard to public health and safety. however, since the recommendations can contribute to safety improvements, the nrc staff proposed the following actions: 1) issue orders within approximately six months to require each nuclear site to purchase portable equipment and revise procedures to address multi-unit events, provide reliable spent fuel pool instrumentation and enhance containment venting capabilities for boiling water reactors (fpl's nuclear units do not use boiling water reactors); 2) request each site to re-evaluate its seismic and flood protection designs in light of current requirements and identify any areas for improvement; and 3) issue new regulations requiring enhancements relating to extended periods of loss of alternating current power, emergency preparedness and spent fuel pool cooling capabilities. the nrc is reviewing the timeline for implementation of all of the actions, but has indicated that all actions should be completed by the end of 2016. fpl is currently reviewing the nrc's directions relating to the nrc staff's recommendations and assessing the potential financial and operational impacts on its nuclear units. the lessons learned from the events in japan and the results of the nrc's review of the nrc staff's recommendations may, among other things, result in changes in or new licensing and safety-related requirements for u.s. nuclear facilities. changes in or new requirements could, among other things, impact the capacity additions (uprates) at fpl's existing nuclear units at st. lucie and 9 table of contents turkey point, and future licensing and operations of u.s. nuclear facilities, including fpl's existing nuclear facilities and the nrc approval of two additional nuclear units at fpl's turkey point site, and could, among other things, result in increased cost and capital expenditures associated with the operation and maintenance of fpl's nuclear units. while the nrc continues its review, fpl continues to work with industry organizations to understand the events in japan and apply lessons learned, which may result in fpl proactively making certain modifications to its nuclear facilities to, among other things, improve operational and safety systems prior to any potential requirements being imposed by the nrc. any modifications could, among other things, result in increased cost and capital expenditures associated with the operation and maintenance of fpl's nuclear units. third parties have requested that the nrc suspend the approval of nuclear uprates, nuclear license extensions and new licenses, including approval of licenses for two additional nuclear units at fpl's turkey point site. another third party request was filed with the nrc seeking immediate suspension of the nrc operating licenses for all boiling water reactors that use a certain primary containment system pending completion of the nrc review. the nrc denied the request for immediate action related to the suspension of operating licenses for boiling water reactors, and, since the nuclear events in japan, has continued to grant approvals for nuclear uprates and license extensions. however, it is uncertain at this time how and when the nrc will respond to the other items in these requests or other requests it may receive, or take action with regard to the timing for implementation of all of the nrc staff's recommendations. solar operations solar generation can be provided primarily through two conventions, utility-owned and customer-owned. in utility-owned solar generation, the energy generated goes directly to the transmission grid, whereas, customer-owned solar generation goes directly to the location it is serving. there are two principal solar technologies used for utility-scale projects: photovoltaic and thermal. fpl placed its first utility-scale solar generating facility into service in 2009 and placed two additional solar generating facilities in service in 2010. fpl's three solar generating facilities consist of a 25 mw solar pv facility in desoto county, florida, a 10 mw solar pv facility in brevard county, florida and a 75 mw solar thermal facility in martin county, florida. purchased power in addition to owning generation facilities, fpl also purchases electricity from other utilities to meet customer demand through long- and short-term purchased power agreements. as of december 31, 2011, fpl's long-term purchased power agreements provided for the purchase of approximately 2,190 mw of power with expiration dates ranging from may 2012 through 2034. see note 14 - contracts. fpl also procures short-term capacity for both economic and reliability purposes. fpl energy marketing and trading fpl's energy marketing &amp; trading division (emt) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see fpl regulation - fpl rate regulation below, management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 3. fpl regulation fpl's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following: the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things. the ferc, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of facilities, transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things. the nerc, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the ferc, to ensure the reliability of the u.s. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts. the nrc, which has jurisdiction over the operation of fpl's nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations above. the epa, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws. the epa also works with industries and all levels of government in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts. fpl rate regulation the fpsc sets rates at a level that is intended to allow fpl the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to fpl's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. 10 table of contents base rates . in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the fpsc's determination of fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that any roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings, which occur at the initiative of fpl, the fpsc, the state of florida office of public counsel or a substantially affected party. base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the fpsc. effective march 1, 2010, pursuant to an fpsc final order (fpsc rate order) new retail base rates for fpl were established, resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of approximately $75 million on an annualized basis. the fpsc rate order also established a regulatory roe of 10.0% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points and an adjusted regulatory equity ratio of 59.1%. it also shifted certain costs from retail base rates to the capacity clause. (see cost recovery clauses below for additional information regarding the capacity clause.) in addition, the fpsc rate order directed fpl to reduce depreciation expense (surplus depreciation credit) over the 2010 to 2013 period related to a depreciation reserve surplus. in february 2011, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement agreement between fpl, the state of florida office of public counsel, the florida attorney general's office and all other principal parties in fpl's 2009 rate case regarding fpl's base rates (2010 rate agreement), which enables fpl to earn a regulatory roe of up to 11% per year over the term of the 2010 rate agreement. key elements of the 2010 rate agreement, which is effective through december 31, 2012, are as follows: subject to the provisions of the 2010 rate agreement, retail base rates are effectively frozen through the end of 2012. incremental cost recovery through fpl's capacity clause for the new combined-cycle natural gas unit at wcec (wcec unit no. 3), which was placed in service in may 2011, is permitted up to the amount of the projected annual fuel savings for customers during the term of the 2010 rate agreement. future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an accelerated basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that produces a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. if storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, fpl may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover the amount above $800 million. if fpl's earned regulatory roe falls below 9%, fpl may seek retail base rate relief. if fpl's earned regulatory roe rises above 11%, any party to the 2010 rate agreement may seek a reduction in fpl's retail base rates. in determining the regulatory roe for all purposes under the 2010 rate agreement, earnings will be calculated on an actual, non-weather-adjusted basis. fpl can vary the amount of surplus depreciation credit taken in any calendar year up to a cap in 2010 of $267 million, a cap in subsequent years of $267 million plus the amount of any unused portion from prior years, and a total cap of $776 million (surplus depreciation credit cap) over the course of the 2010 rate agreement, provided that in any year of the 2010 rate agreement fpl must use at least enough surplus depreciation credit to maintain a 9% earned regulatory roe but may not use any amount of surplus depreciation credit that would result in an earned regulatory roe in excess of 11%. in january 2012, fpl notified the fpsc of its intent to initiate a base rate proceeding in 2012. see recent regulatory developments below. cost recovery clauses . cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange expenses, conservation and certain environmental-related expenses, certain revenue taxes and franchise fees. beginning in 2009, pre-construction costs and carrying charges on construction costs for fpl's planned two additional nuclear units at turkey point and carrying charges on construction costs for fpl's approximately 450 mw to 490 mw of additional capacity at st. lucie and turkey point are also recoverable through a cost recovery clause. also beginning in 2009, costs incurred for fpl's three solar generating facilities are recoverable through a cost recovery clause. cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class. these cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs in the current year. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. fuel costs are recovered from customers through the fuel clause, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses. fpl uses a risk management fuel procurement program which has been approved by the fpsc. the fpsc reviews the program activities and results for prudence annually as part of its review of fuel costs. the program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of fpl's fuel requirements. see fpl energy marketing and trading above, management's discussion - fpl: results of operations, note 1 - regulation and note 3. capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause. in accordance with the fpsc's nuclear cost recovery rule, fpl also recovers pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax afudc rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity clause. as property related to the new nuclear capacity goes into service, construction costs and a return on investment are recovered through base rate increases effective beginning the following january. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations above. in 11 table of contents accordance with the 2010 rate agreement, cost recovery for wcec unit no. 3, which was placed in service in may 2011, is permitted up to the amount of the projected annual fuel savings for customers during the term of the 2010 rate agreement through fpl's capacity clause and is reported as retail base revenues. costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 and costs associated with fpl's three solar facilities are recovered through the environmental compliance cost recovery clause (environmental clause). the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. these costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. ferc the federal power act gives the ferc exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. pursuant to the federal power act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the ferc which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of ferc-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. the federal power act also gives the ferc authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to develop mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of bulk-power systems. the ferc also approves reliability standards and makes them enforceable. see nerc below. electric utilities also are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the ferc. the ferc also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates. nerc the nerc has been certified by the ferc as the national electric reliability organization. the nerc ensures the reliability and security of the north american bulk power system. the nerc's regional entities establish requirements, approved by the ferc, for reliable operation and maintenance of power generation facilities and transmission systems. fpl is subject to these reliability requirements and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them. each nerc region reports seasonally and annually on the status of generation and transmission in each region. fpl environmental regulation fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues, described in the nee environmental matters section below. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. during 2011, fpl spent approximately $117 million on capital additions related to environmental matters, primarily to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations. fpl's capital expenditures related to environmental matters are estimated to total approximately $325 million for 2012 through 2014, including $118 million in 2012. recent regulatory developments in january 2012, fpl filed a formal notification with the fpsc indicating its intent to initiate a base rate proceeding. the notification stated that, based on preliminary estimates, fpl expects to request a base rate increase of approximately $525 million effective january 2013 and an additional base rate increase of approximately $170 million annually commencing when the modernized cape canaveral plant becomes operational, which is expected to occur in june 2013. fpl expects to propose an allowed regulatory roe of 11.25% with a 0.25% roe adder, which is included in the base rate increase fpl expects to request, if fpl maintains the lowest typical residential customer bill among all the electric utilities in florida. fpl expects to file its formal request to initiate a base rate proceeding before the end of the first quarter of 2012 with a final fpsc decision expected in the fourth quarter of 2012 in time for new rates to be effective january 1, 2013. fpl employees fpl had approximately 9,800 employees at december 31, 2011. approximately 31% of the employees are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2014. 12 table of contents ii. neer neer was formed in 1998 to aggregate nee's competitive energy businesses. it is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of neech. through its subsidiaries, neer currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generating facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the u.s., as well as in canada and spain. see note 15. neer is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with 16,607 mw of generating capacity across 22 states and 3 canadian provinces as of december 31, 2011. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. neer is the largest owner of wind and solar energy projects in the u.s. and one of the largest owners and developers of wind projects in canada. since 2002, neer has more than doubled its generating capacity, primarily through the development of new wind projects and acquisition of nuclear projects. in addition, neer provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets, offers customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers and engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities. neer also owns a retail electricity provider serving customers in 13 states and the district of columbia and engages in limited development of natural gas reserves, as well as pipeline infrastructure, through non-operating ownership interests, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business. markets and competition electricity markets in the u.s. are regional and diverse in character. all are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. the nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region, and the degree of control participants have over pricing also varies. generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, neer may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. neer's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities is also constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing. the degree and nature of competition that neer faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets. the majority of neer's revenue, roughly 90%, is derived from wholesale markets. wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. neer competes on the basis of the location of its plants and ownership of multiple plants in various regions, which increases the reliability of its energy supply. wholesale power generation is a regional business that is currently highly fragmented relative to other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. as such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies neer competes with depending on the market. in wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services. in general, u.s. electricity markets encompass three classes of product: energy, capacity and ancillary services. energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services related to power generation assets, for example, load-following services, which require the supplier of energy to vary the quantity delivered based on the load demand needs of the customer. the exact nature of these classes of product is defined in part by regulation. not all regions have a capacity product class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region. rtos and isos exist in a number of regions within which neer operates to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas. neer also has operations that fall within the western electricity coordinating council reliability region that are not under the jurisdiction of an established rto or iso. although each rto and iso may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. neer has operations that fall within the following rtos and isos: alberta electric system operator california independent system operator ercot independent electricity system operator iso new england midwest independent transmission system operator (miso) new york independent system operator (nyiso) pjm southwest power pool 13 table of contents neer competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generating facilities, and approximately 55% of neer's generating capacity is fully committed under long-term contracts. in some regions long-term contracts are not practical and neer sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. in such cases, neer will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically but not always of one to three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, may only protect a portion of the revenue that neer expects to derive from the associated generation facility and may not qualify for hedge accounting under gaap. contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under gaap are referred to as non-qualifying hedges for adjusted earnings purposes. see management's discussion - overview. while the majority of neer's revenue is derived from the output of its generating facilities, neer is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and gas products and services to a variety of customers. in the full requirements service, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day for a fixed period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements. the deregulated retail energy business is typically a highly competitive business. in general, competition in the retail energy business is on the basis of price, service, brand image, product offerings and market perceptions of creditworthiness. electricity is sold pursuant to a variety of product types, including fixed, indexed and renewable products, and customers elect terms of service typically ranging from one month to five years. retail energy rates are market-based, and not subject to traditional cost-of-service regulation by public service commissions. non-affiliated transmission and distribution service companies provide, on a non-discriminatory basis, the wires and metering services necessary to access customers. subsidiaries of neer compete in certain states for retail customers, which can be divided into two principal segments: residential and commercial and industrial (c&amp;i). residential customers largely require only energy services, which may be purchased on a month-to-month basis or under a multi-year contract. large c&amp;i customers share many of the same characteristics as wholesale utility customers and may require similarly customized and structured products. in general, competitive retail electric providers are exposed to both volume and price risk: customers' volumes will vary, and competitive retail providers are committed to supplying the customer's full needs at all times and are therefore responsible for purchases in wholesale markets to meet those needs; and wholesale prices will fluctuate in ways that do not necessarily match the retail prices committed to the customer. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for neer. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. neer seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities. 14 table of contents generation and other operations the vast majority of neer's revenue is derived from selling the products (energy, capacity and ancillary services) produced by its own generating facilities. to a limited extent, neer also meets its customers' needs through purchases of relevant products in wholesale markets and may combine purchases with sales from its own assets in order to meet particular customers' needs. at december 31, 2011, the locations of neer's generation facilities in north america are as follows: at december 31, 2011, neer managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its projects in which it has an ownership interest. neer categorizes its portfolio in a number of different ways for different business purposes. see a listing of neer's generating facilities in item 2 - generating facilities. the following combination of the presence/absence of long-term contracts, fuel/technology and region is a common presentation that nee has used in communicating its business: contracted, merchant and other operations neer's portfolio of operations based on the presence/absence of long-term contracts and other operations is described below. contracted assets. contracted assets are projects with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their output and certain wind assets where long-term power contracts are expected to be executed. at december 31, 2011, neer had 9,647 mw of contracted assets, substantially all of which have long-term power contracts. essentially all of the output of these contracted assets were under power sales agreements, with a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 16 years, and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from march 2012 through 2022. see note 14 - contracts. approximately 6,860 mw of this capacity is wind generation and 1,621 mw of this capacity is nuclear generation. the remaining 1,166 mw use a variety of fuels and technologies such as natural gas, oil and solar. merchant assets. merchant assets are projects that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output, or, in the case of certain wind assets, are not expected to have long-term power contracts, and therefore require active marketing and hedging. at december 31, 2011, neer's portfolio of merchant assets consists of 6,960 mw of owned wind, nuclear, natural gas, oil, solar and hydro generation facilities, including 846 mw of peak generating facilities. approximately 60% (based on net mw capacity) of the natural gas-fueled merchant assets have natural gas transportation agreements to provide for fluctuating natural 15 table of contents gas requirements. see note 14 - contracts. derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) are used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty, credit and operational risks. other. neer's operations also include the gas infrastructure and customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses. see neer customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading below. neer fuel/technology mix neer's generating capacity is produced using a variety of fuel sources as further described below. wind facilities at december 31, 2011, neer had ownership interests in wind generating facilities with a total capacity of 8,569 mw (net ownership). neer operates substantially all of these wind facilities, which are located in 17 states and canada. neer added 379 mw of new wind generation in 2011, including 128 mw related to the repowering of two california wind facilities, and expects to add approximately 1,150 mw to 1,500 mw of new wind generation in 2012. natural gas facilities at december 31, 2011, neer had 3,991 mw of natural gas assets. neer owns and operates 1,004 mw of natural gas-fired generation from contracted assets located throughout the northeast. during 2011, subsidiaries of neer sold their ownership interests in a portfolio of natural gas-fired generating assets totaling approximately 2,700 mw of capacity located in california, virginia, alabama, south carolina and rhode island. see management's discussion - overview and note 4 - nonrecurring fair value measurements. nuclear facilities at december 31, 2011, neer owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,721 mw. facility location mw portfolio category operating license expiration dates seabrook new hampshire 1,100 merchant 2030 (a) duane arnold iowa 431 contracted (b) 2034 point beach unit no. 1 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) 2030 point beach unit no. 2 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) 2033 __________________ (a) in 2010, neer filed an application with the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years. (b) neer sells substantially all of its share of the output of duane arnold under a long-term contract expiring in 2014. (c) neer sells all of the output of point beach units nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through the current operating license terms. 16 table of contents neer's nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply of uranium and conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from march 2012 through 2022. see note 14 - contracts. neer is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly owned units. nrc regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. see estimated decommissioning cost data in management's discussion - critical accounting policies and estimates - nuclear decommissioning and fossil/solar dismantlement. nuclear unit scheduled refueling outages. neer's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. the duration is longer for expanded scope outages, one of which is scheduled at duane arnold in 2012 and is expected to last approximately 60 days. the following table summarizes the next scheduled refueling outages: facility next scheduled refueling outage seabrook october 2012 duane arnold october 2012 point beach unit no. 1 april 2013 point beach unit no. 2 november 2012 disposition of spent nuclear fuel . neer's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to allow neer to store spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. as owners and operators of nuclear facilities, certain subsidiaries of neer are subject to the nuclear waste policy act and are parties to the spent fuel settlement agreement and legal actions described in i. fpl - nuclear operations. similar to fpl, these subsidiaries will continue to pay fees to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund pending the d.c. circuit's decision on the fee suspension petition. recent nuclear developments. for discussion of current developments regarding the impact of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan as it relates to u.s. nuclear facilities, see i. fpl - nuclear operations. neer's nuclear facilities are subject to the same potential nrc actions as described for fpl. duane arnold is neer's only boiling water reactor unit. neer is currently reviewing the nrc's directions relating to the nrc staff's recommendations and assessing the potential financial and operational impact on its nuclear units. solar facilities neer is one of the largest owners of utility-scale solar energy projects in the u.s., principally through a 310 mw facility in california's mojave desert, of which 148 mw is owned by neer as of december 31, 2011. neer is in the process of constructing solar thermal facilities with generating capacity of 99.8 mw in spain (spain solar project) and 250 mw in california (genesis solar project), which are expected to be completed in 2013 and 2014, respectively. in addition, a 550 mw solar pv project in california (desert sunlight solar project), in which neer has a 50% equity investment, has commenced construction and commercial operation is expected to be phased in during 2013 through 2015. during 2011, neer added approximately 5 mw of new solar generation. other assets at december 31, 2011, neer had 1,168 mw of generation assets from a variety of other fuel technologies, including oil and hydropower, with facilities located throughout the northeast. 17 table of contents neer generation by geographic region neer's generating capacity spans various geographic regions in north america, thereby reducing overall volatility related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio basis. neer's generating facilities at december 31, 2011 are categorized by geographic region (see item 2 - generating facilities) in terms of mw of capacity as follows: neer's power generation in terms of mwh produced for the year ended december 31, 2011 by fuel type is as follows: neer customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading pmi, a subsidiary of neer, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as electricity, natural gas and oil. pmi sells the output from neer's plants that has not been sold under long-term contracts and procures the non-nuclear fuel for use by neer's generation fleet. its primary role is to manage the commodity risk of neer's portfolio. pmi uses derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of neer's power generation assets. pmi also provides a wide range of electricity and gas commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to electric and gas utilities, municipalities, cooperatives and other load-serving entities, as well as to owners of electric generation facilities. pmi's customer supply business includes providing full energy and capacity requirements and mid-marketing services that include sales and purchases of wholesale commodities-related products and the operations of a retail electricity provider, which during 2011, served approximately 2,200 mw of peak load to approximately 201,800 customers across the ercot, new england power pool (nepool), pjm, nyiso and miso markets. 18 table of contents the results of pmi's activities are included in neer's operating results. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity, note 1 - energy trading and note 3. neer regulation each of the energy markets in which neer operates is subject to domestic and foreign regulation, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. at december 31, 2011, neer had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the u.s. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the public utility holding company act of 2005, which represent approximately 95% of neer's net generating capacity. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. neer's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, hydro, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities. essentially all of the remaining 5% of neer's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under purpa. neer's qualifying facilities generate electricity primarily from wind, solar and fossil fuels. qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the federal power act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. while projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. additionally, neer facilities located in the u.s. are subject to ferc regulations and market rules, the nerc's mandatory reliability standards and the epa's environmental laws, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. see fpl - fpl regulation for additional discussion of ferc, nerc, nrc, and epa regulations. with the exception of facilities located in ercot, the ferc has jurisdiction over various aspects of neer's business, including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, regulation of hydro projects and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas and hydro projects and major electricity policy initiatives. the puct has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over neer facilities located in ercot. neer is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues related to renewable energy resources as described in the nee environmental matters section below. in order to better anticipate these potential regulatory changes, neer continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. neer employees neer and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,700 employees at december 31, 2011. subsidiaries of neer have collective bargaining agreements with various unions which are summarized in the table below. union location contract expiration date % of neer's employees covered ibew wisconsin june 2012 - september 2013 (a) 10 % utility workers union of america new hampshire december 2013 5 ibew iowa may 2012 3 security police and fire professionals of america iowa july 2012 2 ibew maine february 2013 2 ibew california march 2012 - (b) total 22 % ______________________ (a) various employees at point beach are represented by the ibew under four separate contracts with different expiration dates. (b) less than 1% of neer's employees. in addition, the employees of an operating project in illinois, constituting less than 1% of neer's employees, are represented by the international union of operating engineers, which is currently negotiating its first collective bargaining agreement. iii. other nee operating subsidiaries nee's corporate and other segment represents other business activities, primarily fpl fibernet and lone star, that are not separately reportable. see note 15. fpl fibernet fpl fibernet conducts its business through two separate wholly-owned subsidiaries of neech. one subsidiary was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of nee's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support fpl operations and the other was formed in 2011 to hold fiber-optic network assets which were acquired. both subsidiaries are limited liability companies organized under the laws of delaware. fpl fibernet leases fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to fpl and other customers, 19 table of contents primarily telephone, wireless, internet and other telecommunications companies. fpl fibernet's networks cover most of the metropolitan areas in florida and several in texas. fpl fibernet also has a long-haul network providing bandwidth at wholesale rates. the long-haul network connects major cities in florida and texas with additional connectivity to atlanta, georgia and the south central u.s., including arkansas, louisiana and oklahoma. at december 31, 2011, fpl fibernet's network consisted of approximately 7,800 route miles. fpl fibernet is subject to regulation by the federal communications commission which has jurisdiction over wire and wireless communication networks and by the public utility commissions in the states in which it provides intrastate telecommunication services. lone star lone star, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of neech, is constructing approximately 320 miles of 345 kv transmission lines and other associated facilities in texas. lone star, a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware, is a rate-regulated transmission service provider in texas. two substations and associated facilities with a total capital investment of approximately $60 million are expected to be placed in service in 2012, with the remaining associated facilities and transmission lines expected to be placed in service in the first quarter of 2013, for a total capital investment of approximately $785 million. lone star's transmission lines are part of a transmission grid improvement program that will add approximately 2,300 miles of 345 kv lines to deliver power from the competitive renewable energy zones in west texas and the texas panhandle to the dallas/fort worth area and other population centers in texas. lone star will own the transmission lines and associated facilities and operate them after they are placed in service. lone star is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the puct, the ercot, the nerc and the epa, as well as certain limited regulations of the ferc. see i. fpl - fpl regulation for further discussion of ferc, nerc, and epa regulations and nee environmental matters. the puct has jurisdiction over a wide range of lone star's business activities, including, among others, rates charged to customers and certain aspects of siting, construction and operation of transmission systems. the puct sets rates at a level that allows lone star the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to lone star's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. in january 2012, lone star filed a petition with the puct requesting, among other things, interim rates that would take effect when lone star's first substation is placed in service and final rates when the transmission lines are energized. the petition also proposes to limit cost recovery to lone star's actual capital costs by making a true-up filing within 120 days of energizing the transmission lines. if approved, based on the expected in-service dates, the requested rates would result in annual revenues of approximately $14 million in 2012 and $110 million in 2013. lone star's requested rates are based on a proposed regulatory roe of 11% with a regulatory equity ratio of 52%. hearings on this rate proceeding are expected during the second quarter of 2012 and a final decision is expected during the third quarter of 2012. the interim rates would be subject to refund pending the final decision on the rate proceeding. the puct has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. nee environmental matters nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules, and regulations. the u.s. congress and certain states and regions continue to consider several legislative and regulatory proposals with respect to ghg emissions. the economic and operational impact of climate change legislation on nee and fpl depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the allowed emissions, whether emission allowances will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance. based on the most recent reference data available from government sources, nee is among the lowest emitters, among electric generators, of ghg in the u.s. measured by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of co 2 per mwh of generation. however, the legislative and regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on fpl's and neer's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to nee and fpl could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted or specific implementation rules adopted. i. environmental regulations the following is a discussion of certain existing and emerging federal and state initiatives and rules, some of which could potentially have a material effect (either positive or negative) on nee and its subsidiaries. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. mercury and air toxics standards (mats). in december 2011, the epa issued a final mats rule as required under the clean air act which requires coal-fired and oil-fired generating units to reduce emissions of hazardous air pollutants. the mats rule includes a limited use provision which excludes low-capacity generating units from the requirements to add pollution control equipment, under which three oil-fired units at fpl and four oil-fired units at neer are expected to qualify. based on the provisions of the rule, four oil-fired units and two coal-fired units at fpl are in the process of adding or could be required to add additional pollution control equipment to meet maximum achievable control technology standards. a third coal-fired unit at fpl is in the process of adding additional pollution control equipment to meet certain state compliance requirements which would also satisfy the maximum achievable control technology standards under the mats rule. units affected by the rule will 20 table of contents be required to comply by april 2015, with a possible one year extension for compliance if required to install pollution control equipment. clean air interstate rule (cair)/cross-state air pollution rule (csapr). the epa's cair requires so 2 and nox emissions reductions from electric generating units in specified eastern states and the district of columbia, where the emissions from electric generating units are deemed to be transported to downwind states. neer and fpl began complying with the cair on january 1, 2009. in july 2011, the epa issued the csapr, a final rule which was to replace the cair beginning in january 2012. the csapr would limit emissions of so 2 and nox from power plants in 28 eastern states and provides an allocation methodology for emission allowances and reduction limits for so 2 and nox beginning in january 2012 and seasonal ozone requirements beginning in may 2012, with a second phase of reductions beginning in january 2014. fpl would only be affected by the seasonal ozone requirements of the rule while neer would be affected by the annual so 2 and nox emissions requirements as well as the seasonal ozone requirements in several states. several groups have petitioned the epa to reconsider the csapr and in december 2011, the d.c. circuit issued an order staying implementation of the csapr pending resolution of legal challenges to the rule and ordered that the cair remain in place while the csapr is stayed. the case is scheduled for oral argument in april 2012. the ultimate resolution of the issues surrounding the csapr is uncertain at this time. clean water act section 316(b). in march 2011, the epa issued a proposed rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act to address the location, design, construction and capacity of intake structures at existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems, with a final rule not expected until the summer of 2012. the proposed rule is intended to require the best technology available to reduce the impact on aquatic organisms from once-through cooling water intake systems. under the proposed rule, potentially thirteen of fpl's facilities and five of neer's facilities may be required to add additional controls or make operational changes to comply, the economic and operational impact of which cannot be determined at this time, but could be material. prior to the passage of a new rule, states are continuing to utilize best professional judgment in the application of section 316(b) compliance requirements. avian/bat regulations and wind turbine siting guidelines. neer and fpl are subject to numerous environmental regulations and guidelines related to threatened and endangered species and their habitats, as well as avian and bat species, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. the facilities most significantly affected are wind facilities and transmission and distribution lines. the environmental laws include, among others, the endangered species act, the migratory bird treaty act, and the bald and golden eagle protection act which provide for protection of migratory birds, eagles and endangered species of birds and bats and their habitats. regulations have been adopted under some of these laws that contain provisions that allow the owner/operator of a facility to apply for a permit to undertake specific activities including those associated with certain siting decisions, construction activities and operations. in addition to regulations, voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines, which are expected to be finalized by the u.s. fish and wildlife service by the end of the first quarter of 2012, will set forth siting, monitoring and coordination protocols that are designed to support wind development in the u.s. while also protecting both birds and bats and their habitats. these guidelines will include provisions for specific monitoring and study conditions which will need to be met in order for projects to be in adherence with these voluntary guidelines. complying with these new environmental regulations and adhering to the provisions set forth in the voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines could result in additional costs at existing and new wind generating facilities and transmission and distribution facilities at neer and fpl. regulation of ghg emissions. pursuant to rules issued by the epa under the clean air act, new facilities emitting 100,000 tons per year (tpy) or more of ghg and modifications to existing facilities resulting in an increase of ghg emissions of 75,000 tpy or more have to perform a best available control technology review and, based on that review, may have to reduce emissions by adding additional emissions control equipment or implementing energy efficiency projects. several petitioners have challenged the epa's ghg regulations and the case is pending review by the d.c. circuit, the timing and ultimate outcome of which is uncertain at this time. at fpl, the modernization of the port everglades facility, if approved by the fpsc, would be affected by this rule, the impact of which cannot be determined at this time. ii. other ghg emissions reduction initiatives neer's plants operate in certain states and regions that continue to consider and implement regulatory proposals to reduce ghg emissions. rps, currently in place in approximately 30 states and the district of columbia, require electricity providers in the state or district to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources. these standards vary, but the majority include requirements to meet 10% to 25% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025. neer's plants operate in 18 states that have a rps and neer believes that these standards will create incremental demand for renewable energy in the future. other ghg reduction initiatives including, among others, the regional greenhouse gas initiative and the california greenhouse gas regulation aim to reduce emissions through a variety of programs and under varying timelines. based on its clean generating portfolio, neer expects to continue experiencing a positive impact on earnings as a result of these ghg reduction initiatives. additionally, these initiatives provide neer opportunities with regards to wind and solar development as well as favorable energy pricing. 21 table of contents website access to sec filings nee and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on nee's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information and materials available on nee's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined annual report on form 10-k. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov. 22 table of contents executive officers of nee (a) name age position effective date christopher a. bennett 53 executive vice president &amp; chief strategy, policy &amp; business process improvement officer of nee february 15, 2008 (b) paul i. cutler 52 treasurer of nee treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of nee and fpl february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 moray p. dewhurst 56 vice chairman and chief financial officer, and executive vice president - finance of nee executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl october 5, 2011 shaun j. francis 40 executive vice president, human resources of nee executive vice president, human resources of fpl august 16, 2010 january 31, 2011 chris n. froggatt 54 vice president of nee controller and chief accounting officer of nee october 19, 2009 february 27, 2010 lewis hay, iii 56 chief executive officer of nee chairman of nee and fpl june 11, 2001 january 1, 2002 joseph t. kelliher 51 executive vice president, federal regulatory affairs of nee may 18, 2009 robert l. mcgrath 58 executive vice president, engineering, construction &amp; corporate services of nee and fpl february 21, 2005 (b) manoochehr k. nazar 57 executive vice president, nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of nee executive vice president, nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of fpl january 1, 2010 january 15, 2010 armando j. olivera 62 chief executive officer of fpl july 17, 2008 armando pimentel, jr. 49 president and chief executive officer of neer october 5, 2011 james l. robo 49 president and chief operating officer of nee december 15, 2006 antonio rodriguez 69 executive vice president, power generation division of nee executive vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2007 (b) july 1, 1999 (b) charles e. sieving 39 executive vice president &amp; general counsel of nee executive vice president of fpl december 1, 2008 january 1, 2009 ______________________ (a) information is as of february 27, 2012 . executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his present position for five years or more and his employment history is continuous. mr. bennett was vice president, business strategy &amp; policy of nee from july 2007 to february 2008. from september 1995 to june 2007, mr. bennett was vice president of dean &amp; company, a management consulting and investment firm. mr. dewhurst has been vice chairman of nee since august 2009 and was chief of staff of nee from august 2009 to october 2011. from july 2001 to may 2008, mr. dewhurst was vice president, finance and chief financial officer of nee and senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl. mr. francis was general manager of human resources for a division of general electric company, ge transportation, a supplier to the railroad, marine, drilling, mining and wind power industries from february 2008 to august 2010. from february 2006 to february 2008, mr. francis served as general manager of human resources for a division of general electric company, ge equipment services, a leader in the transportation industry including rail cars, sea containers, tractor trailers, and truck leasing. mr. froggatt was the vice president and treasurer of pinnacle west capital corporation, a public utility holding company, and its major subsidiary, arizona public service company (aps), a regulated electric utility, from december 2008 to october 2009. from october 2002 to december 2008, mr. froggatt was vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of aps. mr. hay was also chief executive officer of fpl from january 2002 to july 2008. mr. kelliher was chairman of the ferc from july 2005 to january 2009. mr. nazar was the chief nuclear officer of nee from january 2009 to december 2009. mr. nazar was senior vice president and chief nuclear officer of fpl from november 2007 to january 2009. from october 2003 to november 2007, mr. nazar was senior vice president &amp; chief nuclear officer of american electric power company, inc., a public utility holding company. mr. olivera was also president of fpl from june 2003 to december 2011. mr. olivera has announced that he will retire from fpl on may 2, 2012. mr. pimentel was chief financial officer of nee and fpl from may 2008 to october 2011 and executive vice president, finance of nee and fpl from february 2008 to october 2011. prior to that, mr. pimentel was a partner of deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, from june 1998 to february 2008. mr. sieving was also assistant secretary of nee from may 2010 to may 2011 and general counsel of fpl from january 2009 to may 2010. mr. sieving was executive vice president, general counsel and secretary of paetec holding corp., a communications services and solutions provider, from february 2007 to november 2008 and was primarily responsible for all legal and regulatory matters. (b) nee title changed from vice president to executive vice president effective may 23, 2008. where applicable, fpl title changed from senior vice president to executive vice president effective july 17, 2008. 23 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to nee's and fpl's business the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of nee and fpl. the following is a description of important risks that may adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl and may cause actual results of nee and fpl to differ substantially from those that nee or fpl currently expects or seeks. in that event, the market price for the securities of nee or fpl could decline. accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that nee and fpl file with the sec. the risks described below are not the only risks facing nee and fpl. additional risks and uncertainties may also materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. each of nee and fpl has disclosed the material risks known to it to affect its business at this time. however, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may in the future adversely affect the performance or financial condition of nee and fpl. regulatory, legislative and legal risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. the operations of nee and fpl are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. this extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, nee's and fpl's industries, rates and cost structures, operation of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, transmission and fuel storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. in their business planning and in the management of their operations, nee and fpl must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or an appropriate return on capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. fpl is a regulated entity subject to the jurisdiction of the fpsc over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers, issuance of securities, and aspects of the siting and operation of its generating plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that fpl is permitted to earn on its investments. the regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in florida and elsewhere, limits fpl's ability to increase earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or an appropriate return on capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. lone star, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of nee that is a regulated electric transmission utility subject to the jurisdiction of the puct, is subject to similar risks. regulatory decisions that are important to nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. the local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on fpsc decisions with negative consequences for fpl. these decisions may require, for example, fpl to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. lone star is subject to similar risks. fpl's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the fpsc. in the event that the fpsc engages in a prudence review of fpl's use of derivative instruments and finds such use to be imprudent, the fpsc could deny cost recovery for such use by fpl. such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 24 table of contents any reduction or elimination of existing government support policies, including, but not limited to, tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, and ultimately any failure to renew or increase these existing support policies, could result in less demand for generation from neer's renewable energy projects and could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer depends heavily on government policies that support renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which neer operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. the federal government, a majority of the 50 u.s. states and portions of canada and spain provide incentives, such as tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, that support the sale of energy from renewable energy facilities owned by neer, such as wind and solar energy facilities. the applicable legislation often grants the relevant state public utility commission the ability to reduce electric supply companies' obligations to meet renewable energy requirements in specified circumstances. any changes to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives that support renewable energy could result in less demand for generation from nee's wind and solar energy projects and could have a material adverse effect on neer's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer also depends heavily on investment cost recovery mechanisms currently available through the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (recovery act). the recovery act includes, among other things, provisions that allow companies building wind and solar energy facilities the option to choose between investment cost recovery mechanisms that make the development of such facilities economically attractive. any changes to the recovery act that eliminate or reduce support for renewable generation projects could impede neer's ability to economically develop wind and solar energy projects in the future and could have a material adverse effect on neer's ability to develop renewable energy projects in the future. if investments in renewable energy and associated projects are perceived less positively by legislators, regulators or the public, this could result in the non-renewal or elimination of beneficial tax policies, among other policies, that benefit neer. any such legislative changes could impede neer's ability to economically develop wind and solar energy projects in the future and could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations or interpretations or other regulatory initiatives. nee's and fpl's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and environmental regulation, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. changes in the nature of the regulation of nee's and fpl's business could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's results of operations. nee and fpl are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on nee and fpl, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. fpl has limited competition in the florida market for retail electricity customers. any changes in florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the florida retail electricity market could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be no assurance that fpl will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer is subject to ferc rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. nee cannot predict the impact of changing ferc rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond nee's control. there can be no assurance that neer will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any other changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if the rules implementing the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) broaden the scope of its provisions regarding the regulation of otc financial derivatives and make them applicable to nee and fpl. the dodd-frank act, enacted into law in july 2010, among other things, provides for the regulation of the otc derivatives market. the dodd-frank act includes provisions that will require certain otc derivatives, or swaps, to be centrally cleared and executed through an exchange or other approved trading platform. while the legislation is broad and detailed, substantial portions of the legislation require implementing rules to be adopted by federal governmental agencies including, but not limited to, the sec and the cftc. nee and fpl cannot predict the final rules that will be adopted to implement the otc derivatives market provisions of the dodd- 25 table of contents frank act. those rules could negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's results of operations. nee or fpl may have portions of their business that may be required to register as swap dealers or major swap participants and submit to extensive regulation if they wish to continue certain aspects of their derivative activities. the rules could also cause neer to restructure part of its energy marketing and trading operations or to discontinue certain portions of its business. in addition, if the rules require nee and fpl to post significant amounts of cash collateral with respect to swap transactions, nee's and fpl's liquidity could be materially adversely affected, and their ability to enter into otc derivatives to hedge commodity and interest rate risks could be significantly limited. reporting and compliance requirements of the rules also could significantly increase operating costs and expose nee and fpl to penalties for non-compliance. the dodd-frank act or other initiatives also could impede the efficient operation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, which could also materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase their cost of operations and may expose them to liabilities. nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 , waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and rps that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new legislation, the current trend toward more stringent standards, and stricter and more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. for example, among other potential or pending changes, the use of hydraulic fracturing or similar technologies to drill for natural gas and related compounds used by nee's gas infrastructure business is currently being debated for potential regulation at the state and federal levels. violations of current or future laws, rules and regulations could expose nee and fpl to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. nee's and fpl's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co2 and methane, from electric generating units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. the potential effects of such greenhouse gas emission limits on nee's and fpl's electric generating units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. while nee's and fpl's electric generating units emit greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the u.s. electric generation sector, the results of operations of nee and fpl could be adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state legislation or regulators impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; make some of nee's and fpl's electric generating units uneconomical to operate in the long term; require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. there can be no assurance that nee or fpl would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. extensive federal regulation of the operations of nee and fpl exposes nee and fpl to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. nee and fpl are subject to extensive federal regulation, which imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on their operations. additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. as an example, under the energy policy act of 2005, nee and fpl, as owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. compliance 26 table of contents with these mandatory reliability standards may subject nee and fpl to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if fpl or nee is found not to be in compliance with these standards, it may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in tax laws, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations, the financial condition and results of operations of nee and fpl, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. ultimate resolution of income tax matters may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could negatively affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings in which nee is involved or other future legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, class action lawsuits, may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. operational risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if nee and fpl do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. nee's and fpl's ability to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, native american and aboriginal groups, and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. if any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may otherwise be available, and nee and fpl could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives and could be required to write-off all or a portion of their investments in the project. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. nee and fpl own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generating and transmission facilities. a key component of nee's and fpl's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. as part of these operations, nee and fpl must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. should nee or fpl be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on nee or fpl, nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage, 27 table of contents a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at potentially higher prices. uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining nee's and fpl's facilities include, but are not limited to: risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and droughts; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires or other major events, of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines; availability of replacement equipment; risks of property damage or human injury from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires or other events; availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; inability to manage properly or mitigate known equipment defects in nee's and fpl's facilities; use of new or unproven technology; risks associated with dependence on a specific fuel source, such as commodity price risk and lack of available alternative fuel sources; increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply and shifting demand; and insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities. customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of nee and fpl, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management goals, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. a lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity may cause nee and fpl to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's own growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. in addition, severe weather, such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect fuel supply, and require nee and fpl to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, obtain replacement power and access available financing sources. furthermore, nee's and fpl's physical plant could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to fpl, a change in sea level. fpl operates in the east and lower west coasts of florida, an area that historically has been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. a disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent nee and fpl from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. at fpl and other businesses of nee where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generating facilities, including, but not limited to, neer's wind, solar and hydro-powered facilities. for example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generating facilities. because the levels of wind, solar and hydro resources are variable and difficult to predict, neer's results of operations for individual wind, solar and hydro facilities specifically, and nee's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. to the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. 28 table of contents threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt nee's and fpl's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. nee's and fpl's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or be indirectly affected by, such activities. terrorist acts or other similar events affecting nee's and fpl's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which nee and fpl rely, could harm nee's and fpl's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power, by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generating facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. these events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), and reputational damage, could adversely affect nee's and fpl's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair nee's and fpl's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. nee's and fpl's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to nee and fpl. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. if insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, nee or fpl may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. nee and fpl generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. for example, fpl is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but would instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the fpsc, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. a loss for which nee or fpl is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if supply costs necessary to provide neer's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. the supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. neer may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, neer's inability or failure to hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair nee's results of operations. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. nee's inability to manage properly or hedge the commodity risks within its portfolios, based on factors both from within or wholly or partially outside of nee's control, may materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. sales of power on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis may cause nee's results of operations to be volatile. a portion of neer's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis. spot market sales are subject to market volatility, and the revenue generated from these sales is subject to fluctuation that may cause nee's results of operations to be volatile. neer and nee may not be able to manage volatility adequately, which could then have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of nee to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect nee's results of operations. 29 table of contents nee is an active participant in energy markets. the liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in the company's ability to manage risks in these operations. over the past several years, other market participants have ceased or significantly reduced their activities in energy markets as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to, government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, nee's and fpl's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. nee and fpl have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. nee and fpl are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks. additionally, risk management tools and metrics such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, nee and fpl are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. such adverse effects could be material. if power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, fpl's and neer's ability to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. fpl and neer depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond fpl's and neer's control (such as severe weather or a generator or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt the ability of fpl and neer to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. nee and fpl are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with nee and fpl. if any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, nee and fpl may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. if a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, nee and fpl may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if nee or fpl is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. nee and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the otc markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for nee to engage in trading and marketing activities. any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. similarly, any requirement for fpl or nee to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite nee's and fpl's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. if nee's or fpl's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, and nee or fpl was unable to recover in a timely way, nee and fpl would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised. nee's and fpl's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of 30 table of contents transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. due to the size, scope and geographical reach of nee's and fpl's business, and due to the complexity of the process of power generation, transmission and distribution, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process this information is both critical and extremely challenging. nee's and fpl's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside, their control, such as operator error, severe weather or terrorist activities. any such failure or disabling event could adversely affect nee's and fpl's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their financial results and liquidity. nee and fpl add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues, the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. nee and fpl also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. nee's and fpl's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in an adverse impact to their reputation and/or the results of operations of the retail business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. if a significant breach occurred, the reputation of nee and fpl could be adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. nee and fpl would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or nee and fpl could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in otc markets. nee and fpl execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the otc markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. transactions executed in otc markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. as a result, nee and fpl may not be able to execute desired otc transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may be adversely affected by negative publicity. from time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting nee and fpl. adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from nee's and fpl's business. addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of nee and fpl, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with their respective regulators. it may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. the direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in florida. fpl must negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of 31 table of contents fpl's revenues. if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and fpl may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. increasing costs associated with health care plans may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's results of operations. the costs of providing health care benefits to employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years. nee and fpl anticipate that their employee benefit costs, including, but not limited to, costs related to health care plans for employees and former employees, will continue to rise. the increasing costs and funding requirements associated with nee's and fpl's health care plans may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be negatively affected by the lack of a qualified workforce or the loss or retirement of key employees. nee and fpl may not be able to service customers, grow their business or generally meet their other business plan goals effectively and profitably if they do not attract and retain a qualified workforce. additionally, the loss or retirement of key executives and other employees may materially adversely affect service and productivity and contribute to higher training and safety costs. over the next several years, a significant portion of nee's and fpl's workforce, including, but not limited to, many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the nuclear generation facilities and electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire. such highly skilled individuals may not be able to be replaced quickly due to the technically complex work they perform. if a significant amount of such workers retire and are not replaced, the subsequent loss in productivity and increased recruiting and training costs could result in a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these consequences could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. nee is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry in general. in addition, nee may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. nuclear generation risks the construction, operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. nee and fpl maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in nee's and fpl's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. if nee or fpl is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of fpl, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. in the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, nee and fpl could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the price-anderson act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. in accordance with this act, nee maintains $375 million of private liability insurance per site, which is the maximum obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides up to $12.2 billion of liability insurance coverage per incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. under the secondary financial protection system, nee is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums of up to $940 million ($470 million for fpl), plus any applicable taxes, per incident at any nuclear 32 table of contents reactor in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident, payable at a rate not to exceed $140 million ($70 million for fpl) per incident per year. such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require nee and fpl to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities. the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a nuclear generation facility, or to take both of these actions, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. any of the foregoing events could require nee and fpl to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. any serious nuclear incident occurring at a nee or fpl plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. an incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the nrc to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. the inability to operate any of neer's or fpl's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the operating licenses for nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities extend through at least 2030. if the facilities cannot be operated for any reason through the life of those operating licenses, nee or fpl may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. various hazards posed to nuclear generation facilities, along with increased public attention to and awareness of such hazards, could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs which are difficult or impossible to predict and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the threat of terrorist activity, as well as recent international events implicating the safety of nuclear facilities, could result in more stringent or complex measures to keep facilities safe from a variety of hazards, including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis, as well as terrorist or other criminal threats. this increased focus on safety could result in higher compliance costs which, at present, cannot be assessed with any measure of certainty and which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. if planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, nee's and fpl's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. in addition, outages may be scheduled, often in connection with a refueling outage, to replace equipment, to increase the generation capacity at a particular nuclear unit, or for other purposes, and those planned activities increase the time the unit is not in operation. in the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. liquidity, capital requirements and common stock risks disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of nee and fpl. nee and fpl rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets, including, but not limited to, the conditions of the most recent financial crises in the u.s. and abroad, could increase nee's and fpl's cost of capital. if nee or fpl is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 33 table of contents although nee's competitive energy subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. the inability of nee's subsidiaries to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific financing for electric-generating and other energy facilities on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by nee and/or neech in the future. the inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. such an occurrence also could result in nee expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. any of these actions could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for nee or its subsidiaries. nee's, neech's and fpl's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of nee and fpl to grow their business, and increase interest costs. the inability of nee, neech and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact nee's and fpl's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, and political, legislative and regulatory actions. there can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of nee, neech and fpl will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. nee's and fpl's liquidity may be impaired if their creditors are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. the inability of nee's, neech's and fpl's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require nee, neech or fpl, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity. poor market performance and other economic factors could affect nee's and fpl's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations. nee sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of nee and its subsidiaries. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. nee's and fpl's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since, as interest rates decrease the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of nee's and fpl's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations. nee and fpl are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. certain of nee's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may adversely affect nee's liquidity and financial results. nee holds other investments where changes in the fair value affect nee's financial results. in some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. this type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. a sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have an material adverse effect on nee's financial condition and results of operations. 34 table of contents nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to nee. nee is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. substantially all of nee's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. nee's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock are primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to nee. nee's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide nee with funds for its payment obligations. the subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can fund nee. in addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, nee's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. the dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. the future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of nee's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if nee is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. nee guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than fpl, through guarantee agreements with neech. these guarantees may require nee to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when nee is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect nee's ability to pay dividends. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of nee's common stock. the market price and trading volume of nee's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of nee and its subsidiaries. as a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of nee's common stock. the factors described above, as well as other information set forth in this report, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's businesses, financial condition, future financial results and/or liquidity should be carefully considered. the risks described above are not the only risks facing nee and fpl. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to nee or fpl, or that are currently deemed to be immaterial, also may materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity. 67 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on nee's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause nee's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of nee and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and nee and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nextera energy, inc. (hereafter, nee) is one of the largest electric power companies in north america, with over 42,000 mw of generating capacity in 26 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada, and employing approximately 14,800 people as of december 31, 2012. nee provides retail and wholesale electric services to nearly 5 million customers and owns generation, transmission and distribution facilities to support its services. it also purchases electric power for resale to its customers and provides risk management services related to power and gas consumption for a limited number of customers. nee is the largest generator in north america of renewable energy from the wind and sun. nee owns and operates approximately 17% of the installed base of u.s. wind power production capacity and operates approximately 14% of the installed base of u.s. utility-scale solar power production capacity as of december 31, 2012. nee also owns and operates one of the largest fleets of nuclear power stations in the u.s., with eight reactors at five sites located in four states, representing approximately 6% of u.s. nuclear power electric generating capacity as of december 31, 2012. nee's business strategy has emphasized the development, acquisition and operation of renewables, nuclear and natural gas-fired generation facilities in response to long-term federal policy trends supportive of zero and low air emissions sources of power. nee's generation fleet has significantly lower rates of emissions of co 2 , so 2 and nox than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry with approximately 97% of its 2012 generation, measured by mwh produced, coming from renewables, nuclear and natural gas-fired facilities. certain environmental attributes of nee's electric generating facilities, such as renewable energy credits, emissions reductions, offsets, allowances and the avoided emission of ghg pollutants, have been or likely will be sold or transferred to third parties, who are solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes. nee was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida and conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, florida power &amp; light company (hereafter, fpl) and nextera energy resources, llc (hereafter, neer). nextera energy capital holdings, inc. (hereafter, neech), another wholly-owned subsidiary of nee, owns and provides funding for neer's and nee's other operating subsidiaries, other than fpl and its subsidiaries. nee's two principal businesses also constitute nee's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. fpl is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in florida. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. based on retail mwh sales. fpl is vertically integrated, with approximately 24,100 mw of generating capacity as of december 31, 2012. fpl's investments in its infrastructure since 2001, such as modernizing less efficient generating plants to produce more energy with less fuel and fewer air emissions, and upgrading its transmission and distribution systems to deliver service reliability that is the best of the florida investor-owned utilities, have provided significant benefits to fpl's customers, all while providing residential and commercial bills that were among the lowest in florida and below the national average based on a rate per kwh as of july 2012. with approximately 95% of its power generation coming from natural gas, nuclear and solar, fpl is also one of the cleanest electric utilities in the nation. based on 2012 information, fpl's emissions rates for co 2 , so 2 and nox were 29%, 91% and 67% lower, respectively, than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry. neer is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with over 18,100 mw of generating capacity across 24 states and 4 canadian provinces as of december 31, 2012. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources, including wind and solar. neer also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities, participates in natural gas production and pipeline infrastructure development and owns a retail electricity provider. 4 table of contents neech's other business activities are primarily conducted through neet and fpl fibernet. neet conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, lone star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in texas, and nht, a rate-regulated transmission owner in new hampshire. fpl fibernet delivers wholesale and enterprise telecommunications services in florida and certain areas of the south central u.s. nee seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors, as described in more detail in the following sections. nee's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both fpl and neer. management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities open to it and does not maintain any specific goal as to the relative size of the two businesses. however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by fpl and neer is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise. fpl and neer, as well as other nee subsidiaries, share common support functions with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses. nee's operating subsidiaries i. fpl fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of nee. fpl is a rate-regulated electric utility and is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. based on retail mwh sales. fpl, with 24,057 mw of generating capacity at december 31, 2012, supplies electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of florida, serving more than 8.9 million people through approximately 4.6 million customer accounts. at december 31, 2012, fpl's service territory and plant locations are as follows (see item 2 - generating facilities): franchise agreements and competition fpl's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. alternatively, municipalities and counties may form their own utility companies to provide service to their residents. in a few cases, an fpl franchise agreement provides the municipality or county the right to buy the distribution assets serving local residents at the end of the agreement. however, during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and fpl has the right to offer electric service to residents. fpl currently holds 177 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2042. two of these franchise agreements expire in 2013, seven expire in 2014 and 168 expire during the period 2015 through 2042. these franchise agreements cover approximately 86% of fpl's retail customer base in florida. negotiations are ongoing to renew the franchise agreements that expire in 2013 and 2014. fpl considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. fpl also provides service to 12 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility, relying upon florida law for access to public rights of way. 5 table of contents because any retail customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, fpl effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. as a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since fpl's cost of service is generally substantially lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. changing technology and economic conditions could alter the favorable relative cost position that fpl currently enjoys; however, fpl seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of high reliability, low bills and excellent customer service. fpl also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. in each of 2012, 2011 and 2010, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 3% of fpl's total operating revenues. the fpsc promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam and solar generating capacity by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, including fpl, to issue an rfp except when the fpsc determines that an exception from the rfp process is in the public interest. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. new nuclear power plants are exempt from the rfp requirement. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations below regarding fpl's planned two additional nuclear units at turkey point. customers and revenue fpl's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within florida. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues and customer accounts by customer class were as follows: for both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that fpl may charge are controlled by regulation, by the fpsc in the case of retail customers, and by the ferc in the case of wholesale customers. in general, under u.s. and florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including an appropriate rate of return on capital employed. however, the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed and there can be no guarantee that fpl will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates. see the discussion of regulation at fpl regulation below. 6 table of contents fpl seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low cost position. a common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the cost per 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer. fpl's 2012 average cost per 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was the lowest of the 55 electric utilities within florida as indicated below: transmission and distribution fpl provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers. fpl also maintains interconnection facilities with neighboring utilities and wholesale power providers, enabling it to buy and sell wholesale electricity outside its service territory and to enhance the reliability of its own network and support the reliability of neighboring networks. fpl's transmission system carries high voltage electricity from its generating facilities to substations where the electricity is stepped down to lower voltage levels and is sent through the distribution system to its customers. a key element of fpl's strategy is to provide highly reliable service to its customers. the transmission and distribution system is susceptible to interruptions or outages from a wide variety of sources including weather, animal interference, traffic accidents, equipment failure and many others, and fpl seeks to reduce or eliminate outages where economically practical and to restore service rapidly when outages occur. a common industry benchmark for transmission and distribution system reliability is the system average interruption duration index (saidi), which represents the number of minutes the average customer is without power during a time period. for the five years 2007-2011, fpl's average annual saidi was the best of the investor-owned utilities in florida. fpl system capability and load at december 31, 2012, fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 26,020 mw, of which 24,057 mw were from fpl-owned facilities (see item 2 - generating facilities) and 1,963 mw were available through purchased power agreements (see fpl sources of generation - purchased power below). occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. however, customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. the highest peak load fpl has served to date was 24,346 mw, which occurred on january 11, 2010. fpl had adequate resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand. fpl's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2013 is approximately 28%. this reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of available output from fpl's active generating units, purchased power agreements and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of demand side management programs, including load management which was estimated at december 31, 2012 to be capable of reducing demand by 1,865 mw, and energy efficiency and conservation programs. see fpl sources of generation - fossil operations and nuclear operations below regarding generation projects currently under construction. fpl sources of generation fpl relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generating facilities, along with purchased power, in order to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix by responding to market and industry developments. see descriptions of fossil, nuclear and solar operations below and a listing of fpl's generating facilities in item 2 - generating facilities. 7 table of contents fpl's 2012 fuel mix based on mwh produced, including purchased power, was as follows: during 2012, nuclear generation was lower than in 2011 as a result of outages related to a generation uprate project at fpl's nuclear units. fossil operations (natural gas, coal and oil) at december 31, 2012, fpl owned and operated 73 units that used fossil fuels such as natural gas and/or oil, and had a joint ownership interest in three coal units, which combined provided 20,696 mw of generating capacity for fpl. these fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity demand. fpl's natural gas plants require natural gas transportation, supply and storage. fpl has firm transportation contracts in place with five different transportation suppliers with expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2036 that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of the currently anticipated needs for natural gas transportation through 2016. to the extent desirable, fpl also purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from these natural gas transportation suppliers based on pipeline availability. fpl has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. fpl has an agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2014. see note 13 - contracts. with respect to its oil plants, fpl obtains its fuel requirements in the spot market. in december 2012, fpl issued an rfp for an approximately 700-mile natural gas pipeline that will help fpl identify and evaluate options for new natural gas transportation infrastructure in florida to meet the growing need for natural gas power. the proposed pipeline will be composed of two segments and be operational beginning in 2017. the upstream segment will originate at an existing hub in western alabama and end at a new hub to be built in central florida that will allow the new pipeline to interconnect with peninsular florida's two existing natural gas pipelines. the downstream segment will originate at the new central florida hub and end in martin county, florida at fpl's martin power plant. fpl plans to propose a self-build option for the downstream segment of the pipeline, which, if selected, is expected to be built, owned and operated by a ferc-regulated affiliate. the bids are due in april 2013 with the winning proposal(s) expected to be selected by the end of june 2013. the pipeline will be subject to regulatory approvals. st. johns river power park (sjrpp) units nos. 1 and 2, in which fpl has a joint ownership interest, has a coal supply and transportation contract for a portion of the 2013 and 2014 fuel needs for those units. all of the transportation requirements and a portion of the coal supply needs for scherer unit no. 4, the other coal unit in which fpl has a joint ownership interest, are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts. the remaining fuel requirements for these units will be obtained in the spot market. see note 13 - contracts. modernization projects. fpl is in the process of modernizing its cape canaveral, riviera beach and port everglades power plants to high-efficiency natural gas-fired units that will provide approximately 1,200 mw, 1,200 mw and 1,280 mw of capacity, respectively, and be placed in service by june 2013, june 2014 and mid-2016, respectively. in may 2012, the florida industrial power users group appealed the fpsc's order approving the port everglades modernization, which appeal will be heard by the florida supreme court. 8 table of contents nuclear operations at december 31, 2012, fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 3,326 mw. facility mw operating license expiration dates st. lucie unit no. 1 981 2036 st. lucie unit no. 2 843 2043 turkey point unit no. 3 809 2032 turkey point unit no. 4 693 2033 fpl has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from june 2013 through 2023. see note 13 - contracts. nrc regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the applicable operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 commencing in 2043. projects to add additional capacity. fpl is in the final stages of a generation uprate project which is expected to add at least 510 mw of capacity at its existing nuclear units at st. lucie and turkey point, which are expected to result in significant fuel cost savings compared to other sources of generation over the lives of the units. as of december 31, 2012, approximately 395 mw of the additional capacity were in service; the remaining amount of additional capacity is projected to be placed in service in the spring of 2013. as part of the conditions of certification by the fdep for the turkey point units, fpl was required to implement a monitoring plan in and around the turkey point cooling canals due to concerns over potential saltwater intrusion beyond fpl's property. monitoring under the plan includes collection of data prior to and after the additional capacity is placed in service. data for the first two years has been collected and provided to the fdep. the ultimate results of the monitoring plan are uncertain, and the financial and operational impacts on fpl, if any, cannot be determined at this time. in 2008, the fpsc approved fpl's need petition for two additional nuclear units at its turkey point site. the two units combined are expected to add approximately 2,200 mw of capacity and have projected in-service dates between 2022 and 2023. additional approvals from other regulatory agencies will be required later in the development process. additionally, the issuance of a combined operating license by the nrc may be delayed due to required revisions to the nrc's waste confidence rule concerning the storage of spent nuclear fuel after reactor operation, which revisions are not expected to be finalized before late 2014. nuclear unit scheduled refueling outages. fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. the duration is longer for expanded scope outages, one of which is expected to be completed in the spring of 2013 at turkey point unit no. 4. the following table summarizes each unit's current or next scheduled refueling outage: facility beginning of current or next scheduled refueling outage st. lucie unit no. 1 september 2013 st. lucie unit no. 2 march 2014 turkey point unit no. 3 january 2014 turkey point unit no. 4 november 2012 disposition of spent nuclear fuel. fpl's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to allow fpl to store spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. under the nuclear waste policy act of 1982, as amended (nuclear waste policy act), the doe is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. as required by the nuclear waste policy act, fpl is a party to contracts with the doe to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its nuclear units. 9 table of contents the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. the doe did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the nuclear waste policy act. in 2009, fpl and certain of fpl's nuclear plant joint owners entered into a settlement agreement (spent fuel settlement agreement) with the u.s. government agreeing to dismiss with prejudice lawsuits filed against the u.s. government seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from fpl's nuclear plants. the spent fuel settlement agreement permits fpl to make annual filings to recover certain spent fuel storage costs incurred by fpl which are reimbursable by the u.s. government on an annual basis. in a separate lawsuit filed in 2011, fpl joined the nuclear energy institute and several other nuclear plant owners and operators (petitioners) in petitioning the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia (d.c. circuit) to challenge the doe's decision to continue to collect the nuclear waste fee. in june 2012, the d.c. circuit held that the doe's fee adequacy determination was legally defective but remanded the case to the doe to revise its determination while retaining jurisdiction over the matter. in january 2013, the doe issued its revised fee adequacy determination concluding that the nuclear waste fee was adequate, at which time the petitioners filed a motion to reopen the case with the d.c. circuit. fpl will continue to pay fees to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund pending further action by the d.c. circuit. in march 2010, the doe filed a motion with the nrc to withdraw its license application for a nuclear waste repository at yucca mountain. the doe's withdrawal motion has been challenged and is being litigated before the nrc and the d.c. circuit. in light of the government's decision not to proceed with the yucca mountain repository project, the doe established a blue ribbon commission on america's nuclear future (brc) to conduct a comprehensive review of policies for managing the back end of the nuclear fuel cycle and to provide recommendations for developing a safe, long-term solution to managing spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. in january 2012, the brc issued its report and recommendations which includes a consent-based approach, working with all affected units of government, to site future nuclear waste management facilities; creation of a new organization, independent of the doe, dedicated solely to assuring the safe storage and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste; providing access to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund for the purpose of nuclear waste storage and disposal; and initiating prompt efforts to develop geologic disposal facilities, consolidated interim storage facilities and transportation to those facilities. in january 2013, the doe issued a strategy document for implementing the brc recommendations. the strategy document outlines, among other things, long-term plans for a new management organization to handle spent fuel storage and disposal activities, development of new interim storage facilities and several possible funding reforms, including accessing the nuclear waste fund for funding these activities. each of these steps will require new federal legislation. nuclear regulatory developments. as a result of the impact of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami on nuclear facilities in japan, the nrc conducted a comprehensive review of processes and regulations relating to nuclear facilities in the u.s. to determine whether it should make additional improvements to its regulatory system and policies. in march 2012, based on the review, the nrc established, among other things, the following actions which: 1) require each nuclear site to purchase portable equipment and revise procedures to address multi-unit events, provide reliable spent fuel pool instrumentation and enhance containment venting capabilities for boiling water reactors (fpl's nuclear units do not use boiling water reactors; see neer - generation and other operations - nuclear facilities - nuclear regulatory developments); 2) request each site to re-evaluate its seismic and flood protection designs in light of current requirements and identify any areas for improvement; and 3) require enhancements relating to extended periods of loss of alternating current power, emergency preparedness and spent fuel pool cooling capabilities. the nrc also prescribed a timeline for implementation of the actions with completion by the end of 2016. fpl is currently reviewing various orders and requests for information being issued by the nrc and assessing the potential financial and operational impacts on its nuclear units, which could be significant. fpl's preliminary estimate of the cost to complete the actions described above is included in estimated capital expenditures. see note 13 - commitments. the lessons learned from the events in japan and the results of the nrc's actions will, among other things, result in new licensing and safety-related requirements for u.s. nuclear facilities. any new requirements could, among other things, impact future licensing and operations of u.s. nuclear facilities, including fpl's existing nuclear facilities and the nrc approval of two additional nuclear units at fpl's turkey point site, and could, among other things, result in increased cost and capital expenditures associated with the operation and maintenance of fpl's nuclear units. third parties have requested that the nrc, among other things, suspend the approval of nuclear license extensions and new licenses, including approval of licenses for two additional nuclear units at fpl's turkey point site. it is uncertain how and when the nrc will respond to the requests or other requests it may receive. solar operations solar generation can be provided primarily through two conventions: utility-owned and customer-owned. in utility-owned solar generation, the energy generated goes directly to the transmission grid, whereas customer-owned solar generation goes directly to the location it is serving. there are two principal solar technologies used for utility-scale projects: photovoltaic and thermal. fpl placed its first utility-scale solar generating facility into service in 2009, a 25 mw solar pv facility in desoto county, florida, and placed two additional solar generating facilities in service in 2010, a 10 mw solar pv facility in brevard county, florida and a 75 mw solar thermal facility in martin county, florida. 10 table of contents purchased power in addition to owning generation facilities, fpl also purchases electricity from other utilities to meet customer demand through long- and short-term purchased power agreements. as of december 31, 2012, fpl's long-term purchased power agreements provided for the purchase of approximately 1,963 mw of power with expiration dates ranging from 2015 through 2032. see note 13 - contracts. fpl also procures short-term capacity for both economic and reliability purposes. fpl energy marketing and trading fpl's energy marketing &amp; trading division (emt) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see fpl regulation - fpl rate regulation below, management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 3. fpl regulation fpl's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following: the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things; the ferc, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of facilities, transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things; the nerc, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the ferc, to ensure the reliability of the u.s. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts; the nrc, which has jurisdiction over the operation of fpl's nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders (see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations above); and the epa, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws. the epa also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts. fpl rate regulation the fpsc sets rates at a level that is intended to allow fpl the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to fpl's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. base rates . in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the fpsc's determination of fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that any roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings. proceedings can occur at the initiative of fpl or upon action by the fpsc. base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the fpsc. rates effective january 2013 - december 2016 - in january 2013, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement). key elements of the 2012 rate agreement, which is effective from january 2013 through december 2016, include, among other things, the following: new retail base rates and charges were established in january 2013 resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of $350 million on an annualized basis. fpl's allowed regulatory roe will be 10.50%, with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points. if fpl's earned regulatory roe falls below 9.50%, fpl may seek retail base rate relief. if the earned regulatory roe rises above 11.50%, any party to the 2012 rate agreement other than fpl may seek a review of fpl's retail base rates. retail base rates will be increased by the annualized base revenue requirements for fpl's three modernization projects (cape canaveral, riviera beach and port everglades) as each of the modernized power plants becomes operational (which is expected by june 2013, june 2014 and mid-2016, respectively). 11 table of contents cost recovery of wcec unit no. 3, which was placed in service in may 2011, will continue to occur through the capacity clause; however, such recovery will not be limited to the projected annual fuel cost savings as was the case in the previous rate agreement discussed below. subject to certain conditions, fpl must amortize, over the term of the 2012 rate agreement, a depreciation reserve surplus remaining at the end of 2012 under the 2010 fpsc rate order discussed below (approximately $224 million) and may amortize a portion of fpl's fossil dismantlement reserve up to a maximum of $176 million (collectively, the reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, fpl must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.50% earned regulatory roe but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory roe in excess of 11.50%. future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. if storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, fpl may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover the amount above $800 million. on february 7, 2013, the office of public counsel filed a notice of appeal to the florida supreme court of the fpsc's final order regarding the 2012 rate agreement. rates effective march 2010 - december 2012 - effective march 1, 2010, pursuant to an fpsc final order (2010 fpsc rate order), new retail base rates for fpl were established, resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of approximately $75 million on an annualized basis. the 2010 fpsc rate order, among other things, also established a regulatory roe of 10.0% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points. in february 2011, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement agreement between fpl and principal parties in fpl's 2009 rate case (2010 rate agreement). the 2010 rate agreement, which was effective through december 31, 2012, provided for, among other things, a reduction in depreciation expense (surplus depreciation credit) in any calendar year up to a cap in 2010 of $267 million, a cap in subsequent years of $267 million plus the amount of any unused portion from prior years, and a total cap of $776 million over the course of the 2010 rate agreement, provided that in any year of the 2010 rate agreement fpl was required to use enough surplus depreciation credit to maintain an earned regulatory roe within the range of 9.0% - 11.0%. the 2010 rate agreement also permitted incremental cost recovery through fpl's capacity clause for wcec unit no. 3 up to the amount of the projected annual fuel savings for customers. see cost recovery clauses below for additional information regarding the capacity clause. cost recovery clauses . cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange costs, certain construction-related costs and conservation and certain environmental-related costs. cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class. these cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. fuel costs are recovered from customers through the fuel clause, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses. fpl uses a risk management fuel procurement program which has been approved by the fpsc. the fpsc reviews the program activities and results for prudence annually as part of its review of fuel costs. the program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of fpl's fuel requirements. see fpl energy marketing and trading above, management's discussion - fpl: results of operations, note 1 - regulation and note 3. capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause. in accordance with the fpsc's nuclear cost recovery rule, fpl also recovers pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a fixed pretax afudc rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity clause. as property related to the new nuclear capacity goes into service, construction costs and a return on investment are recovered through base rate increases effective beginning the following january. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations above. in accordance with the 2012 and 2010 rate agreements, cost recovery for wcec unit no. 3 is permitted during the term of the agreements through fpl's capacity clause and is reported as retail base revenues. costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 and costs associated with fpl's three solar facilities are recovered through the environmental compliance cost recovery clause (environmental clause). the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. these costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. 12 table of contents ferc the federal power act gives the ferc exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. pursuant to the federal power act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the ferc which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of ferc-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. the federal power act also gives the ferc authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to develop mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of bulk-power systems. the ferc also approves reliability standards and makes them enforceable. see nerc below. electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the ferc. the ferc also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates. nerc the nerc has been certified by the ferc as the national electric reliability organization. the nerc ensures the reliability and security of the north american bulk power system. the nerc's regional entities establish requirements, approved by the ferc, for reliable operation and maintenance of power generation facilities and transmission systems. fpl is subject to these reliability requirements and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them. each nerc region reports seasonally and annually on the status of generation and transmission in each region. fpl environmental regulation fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues, described in the nee environmental matters section below. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. fpl employees fpl had approximately 9,700 employees at december 31, 2012. approximately 32% of the employees are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2014. ii. neer neer was formed in 1998 to aggregate nee's competitive energy businesses. it is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of neech. through its subsidiaries, neer currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generating facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the u.s., as well as in canada and spain. see note 14. neer is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with 18,122 mw of generating capacity across 24 states and 4 canadian provinces as of december 31, 2012. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. neer is the largest owner of wind and utility-scale solar energy projects in north america. since 2002, neer has more than doubled its generating capacity, primarily through the development of new wind projects and acquisition of nuclear projects. neer engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, to hedge the production from its generating assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements. these activities include providing full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offering customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers. neer also participates in natural gas production through non-operating ownership interests and pipeline infrastructure development, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business, and owns a retail electricity provider serving customers in 13 states and the district of columbia. markets and competition electricity markets in the u.s. are regional and diverse in character. all are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. the nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region. generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, neer may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. neer's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities is also constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing. the degree and nature of competition that neer faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets. approximately 90% of neer's revenue is derived from wholesale markets. 13 table of contents wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. neer primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of neer's generating assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages. wholesale power generation is a regional business that is currently highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. as such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies neer competes with depending on the market. in wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services. in general, u.s. electricity markets encompass three classes of product: energy, capacity and ancillary services. energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services related to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves. the exact nature of these classes of product is defined in part by regional tariffs. not all regions have a capacity product class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region. rtos and isos exist in a number of regions within which neer operates to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets. neer also has operations that fall within the western electricity coordinating council reliability region that are not under the jurisdiction of an established rto or iso. although each rto and iso may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. neer has operations that fall within the following rtos and isos: alberta electric system operator california independent system operator ercot independent electricity system operator (in ontario) iso new england (iso-ne) midwest independent transmission system operator (miso) new york independent system operator (nyiso) pjm southwest power pool neer competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generating facilities, and approximately 58% of neer's generating capacity is fully committed under long-term contracts. where long-term contracts are not in effect, neer sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. in such cases, neer will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically but not always of one to three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, may only protect a portion of the revenue that neer expects to derive from the associated generation facility and may not qualify for hedge accounting under gaap. contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under gaap are referred to as non-qualifying hedges for adjusted earnings purposes. see management's discussion - overview. the neer wind generation portfolio produces renewable energy credits (recs) which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts. a small portion of the wind portfolio generation is sold under short-term contracts and the recs and other environmental attributes may be sold separately. while the majority of neer's revenue is derived from the output of its generating facilities, neer is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and gas products and services to a variety of customers. in the full requirements service, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day for a fixed period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements. the deregulated retail energy business is typically a highly competitive business. in general, competition in the retail energy business is on the basis of price, service, brand image, product offerings and market perceptions of creditworthiness. electricity is sold pursuant to a variety of product types, including fixed, indexed and renewable products, and customers elect terms of service typically ranging from one month to five years. retail energy rates are market-based, and not subject to traditional cost-of-service regulation by public service commissions. non-affiliated transmission and distribution service companies provide, on a non-discriminatory basis, the wires and metering services necessary to deliver service to customers. subsidiaries of neer compete in certain states for retail customers, which can be divided into two principal segments: residential and commercial and industrial (c&amp;i). residential customers largely require only energy services, which may be purchased on a month-to-month basis or under a multi-year contract. large c&amp;i customers share many of the same characteristics as wholesale utility customers and may require similarly customized and structured products. 14 table of contents in general, competitive retail electric providers are exposed to both volume and price risk: customers' volumes will vary, and competitive retail providers are committed to supplying the customer's full needs at all times and are therefore responsible for purchases in wholesale markets to meet those needs; and wholesale prices will fluctuate in ways that do not necessarily match the retail prices committed to the customer. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for neer. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. neer seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities. generation and other operations the vast majority of neer's revenue is derived from selling the products (energy, capacity, recs and ancillary services) produced by its own generating facilities. however, neer may combine purchases of relevant products in wholesale markets with products produced by its own generating facilities in order to meet particular customers' needs. at december 31, 2012, the locations of neer's generation facilities in north america are as follows: at december 31, 2012, neer managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its generation projects in which it has an ownership interest. neer categorizes its portfolio in a number of different ways for different business purposes. see a listing of neer's generating facilities in item 2 - generating facilities. the following combination of the presence/absence of long-term contracts, fuel/technology and region is a common presentation that nee has used in communicating its business: 15 table of contents contracted, merchant and other operations neer's portfolio of operations based on the presence/absence of long-term contracts and other operations is described below. contracted assets. contracted assets are projects with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their output and certain wind assets where long-term power contracts are expected to be executed. at december 31, 2012, neer had 11,039 mw of contracted assets, substantially all of which have long-term power contracts. essentially all of the output of these contracted assets were under power sales agreements, with a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 15 years, and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from march 2013 through 2022. see note 13 - contracts. approximately 8,213 mw of this capacity is wind generation and 1,621 mw of this capacity is nuclear generation. the remaining 1,205 mw use a variety of fuels and technologies such as natural gas, oil and solar. merchant assets. merchant assets are projects that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output, or, in the case of certain wind assets, are not expected to have long-term power contracts, and therefore require active marketing and hedging. at december 31, 2012, neer's portfolio of merchant assets consists of 7,083 mw of owned wind, nuclear, natural gas, oil, solar and hydro generating facilities (see neer fuel/technology mix - other assets below), including 846 mw of peak generating facilities. approximately 60% (based on net mw capacity) of the natural gas-fueled merchant assets have natural gas transportation agreements to provide for fluctuating natural gas requirements. see note 13 - contracts. derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) are generally used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty, credit and operational risks. other. neer's operations also include the gas infrastructure business and the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses. at december 31, 2012, the gas infrastructure business had non-operating investments located in shale formations primarily in texas, oklahoma, wyoming, north dakota and louisiana. also, see neer customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading below. neer fuel/technology mix neer's generating output is produced using a variety of fuel sources as further described below. wind facilities at december 31, 2012, neer had ownership interests in wind generating facilities with a total capacity of 10,057 mw (net ownership). neer operates substantially all of these wind facilities, which are located in 19 states and canada. during 2012, neer added approximately 1,520 mw of new wind generation and sold a wind facility with 30 mw of generating capacity. neer is currently committed to add approximately 775 mw of new wind generation during the period 2013 to 2015, primarily in canada. see policy incentives for renewable energy projects for additional discussion of neer's expectations regarding wind development and construction. natural gas facilities at december 31, 2012, neer had 3,991 mw of natural gas assets. neer owns and operates 1,004 mw of natural gas-fired generation from contracted assets located throughout the northeast. 16 table of contents nuclear facilities at december 31, 2012, neer owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,721 mw. facility location mw portfolio category operating license expiration dates seabrook new hampshire 1,100 merchant 2030 (a) duane arnold iowa 431 contracted (b) 2034 point beach unit no. 1 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) 2030 point beach unit no. 2 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) 2033 ______________________ (a) in 2010, neer filed an application with the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years, which license renewal may be delayed due to required revisions to the nrc's waste confidence rule which are not expected to be finalized before late 2014. (b) neer sells substantially all of its share of the output of duane arnold under a long-term contract expiring in february 2014. upon expiration of that contract, neer will sell all of its share of the output of duane arnold under a long-term contract expiring in february 2025. (c) neer sells all of the output of point beach units nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through the current operating license terms. neer's nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply of uranium and conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from march 2013 through 2022. see note 13 - contracts. neer is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly-owned units. nrc regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. nuclear unit scheduled refueling outages. neer's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. the following table summarizes the next scheduled refueling outages: facility next scheduled refueling outage seabrook april 2014 duane arnold october 2014 point beach unit no. 1 march 2013 point beach unit no. 2 march 2014 disposition of spent nuclear fuel. neer's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to allow neer to store spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. as owners and operators of nuclear facilities, certain subsidiaries of neer are subject to the nuclear waste policy act and are parties to the spent fuel settlement agreement and legal actions described in fpl - fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations. similar to fpl, these subsidiaries will continue to pay fees to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund pending further action by the d.c. circuit. nuclear regulatory developments. for discussion of developments regarding the impact of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan as it relates to u.s. nuclear facilities, see fpl - fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations. neer's nuclear facilities are subject to the same nrc actions as described for fpl. duane arnold is neer's only boiling water reactor unit. neer is currently reviewing the various orders and requests for information being issued by the nrc and assessing the potential financial and operational impact on its nuclear units, which could be significant. neer's preliminary estimate of the cost to complete the nrc actions established in march 2012 is included in estimated capital expenditures. see note 13 - commitments. 17 table of contents solar facilities neer is one of the largest owners of utility-scale solar energy projects in north america, principally through a 310 mw facility in california's mojave desert, of which 148 mw is owned by neer as of december 31, 2012. neer and its affiliates are in the process of constructing solar thermal facilities with generating capacity of 99.8 mw in spain (spain solar projects) (see note 13 - commitments for recent changes in law that could negatively affect the spain solar projects) and 250 mw in california (genesis solar project), which are expected to be completed in 2013 and 2014, respectively. in addition, a 550 mw solar pv project in california (desert sunlight solar project), in which neer has a 50% equity investment, has commenced construction and commercial operation is expected to be phased in during 2013 through 2015. during 2012, neer acquired 40 mw of new solar generation in canada. other assets at december 31, 2012, neer had 1,155 mw of generation assets from a variety of other fuel technologies, including oil and hydropower, with facilities located throughout the northeast. in late 2012, a subsidiary of neer entered into an agreement to sell its ownership interest in a portfolio of hydropower generation plants and related assets with a total generating capacity of 351 mw located in maine and new hampshire. upon the anticipated closing in the first quarter of 2013, neer will have no further investments in hydropower assets. policy incentives for renewable energy projects in its development and operation of u.s. wind generation facilities, neer depends heavily on the federal ptc, which currently provides an income tax credit for the production of electricity from utility-scale wind turbines for the first ten years of commercial operation. this incentive was created under the energy policy act of 1992 and was set to expire such that it would not apply to wind projects that achieve commercial operation after december 31, 2012. under the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (taxpayer relief act), the ptc was extended for wind projects whose construction begins by december 31, 2013. alternatively, wind project developers can choose to receive a 30% itc, in lieu of the ptc, with the same requirement that construction of the wind project begin by december 31, 2013. for qualifying wind projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects were placed in service in 2012, wind project developers could elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the u.s. department of treasury for the value of the 30% itc. neer's expectations for wind development and construction in 2013 and beyond will depend, in part, on rules to be established under the taxpayer relief act. solar project developers are also eligible to receive a 30% itc for new solar projects that achieve commercial operations before 2017. solar project developers can elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the u.s. department of treasury for the value of the 30% itc for qualifying solar projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects are placed in service before 2017. other countries, including canada and spain, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. the feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology. neer generation by geographic region neer's generating capacity spans various geographic regions in north america, thereby reducing overall volatility related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio basis. neer's generating facilities at december 31, 2012 are categorized by geographic region (see item 2 - generating facilities) in terms of mw of capacity as follows: 18 table of contents neer's power generation in terms of mwh produced for the year ended december 31, 2012 by fuel type is as follows: neer customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading pmi, a subsidiary of neer, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as electricity, natural gas and oil. pmi sells the output from neer's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures the non-nuclear fuel for use by neer's generation fleet. its primary role is to manage the commodity risk of neer's portfolio. pmi uses derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of neer's power generation assets. pmi also provides a wide range of electricity and gas commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to electric and gas utilities, municipalities, cooperatives and other load-serving entities, as well as to owners of electric generation facilities. pmi's customer supply business includes providing full energy and capacity requirements and mid-market services that include sales and purchases of wholesale commodities-related products and the operations of a retail electricity provider, which during 2012, served approximately 2,950 mw of peak load to approximately 209,100 customers across the ercot, new england power pool (nepool), pjm, nyiso and miso markets. the results of pmi's activities are included in neer's operating results. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity, note 1 - energy trading and note 3. neer regulation the energy markets in which neer operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. at december 31, 2012, neer had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the u.s. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the public utility holding company act of 2005, which represent approximately 96% of neer's net generating capacity. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. neer's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, hydro, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities. essentially all of the remaining 4% of neer's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under the purpa. neer's qualifying facilities generate electricity primarily from wind, solar and fossil fuels. qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the federal power act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. while projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. additionally, most of the neer facilities located in the u.s. are subject to ferc regulations and market rules, the nerc's mandatory reliability standards and the epa's environmental laws, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. see fpl - fpl regulation for additional discussion of ferc, nerc, nrc and epa regulations. with the exception of facilities located in ercot, the ferc has jurisdiction over various aspects of neer's business in the u.s., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, regulation of hydro projects and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas and hydro projects and major electricity policy initiatives. the puct has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over neer facilities located in ercot. neer and its affiliates are also subject to national and provincial or regional regulations in canada and spain related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. 19 table of contents neer is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues related to renewable energy resources as described in the nee environmental matters section below. in order to better anticipate these potential regulatory changes, neer continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. neer employees neer and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,700 employees at december 31, 2012. certain subsidiaries of neer have collective bargaining agreements with the ibew, the utility workers union of america, the security police and fire professionals of america and the international union of operating engineers, which collectively represent approximately 23% of neer's employees. the collective bargaining agreements have one- to five-year terms and expire between september 2013 and 2015. iii. other nee operating subsidiaries nee's corporate and other segment represents other business activities, primarily neet and fpl fibernet, that are not separately reportable. see note 14. neet neet, a wholly-owned subsidiary of neech, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. neet conducts its business primarily through two subsidiaries, lone star and nht, and is pursuing opportunities to develop, build and operate new transmission facilities throughout north america. lone star lone star is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. lone star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in texas, is constructing approximately 330 miles of 345 kilovolt (kv) transmission lines and other associated facilities. two substations and associated facilities with a total capital investment of approximately $49 million were placed in service in 2012, with the remaining associated facilities and transmission lines expected to be placed in service in march 2013, for a total capital investment of approximately $780 million. lone star's transmission lines are part of a transmission grid improvement program that will add approximately 2,300 miles of 345 kv lines to deliver power from the competitive renewable energy zones in west texas and the texas panhandle to the dallas/fort worth area and other population centers in texas. lone star is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the puct, the ercot, the nerc and the epa, as well as certain limited regulations of the ferc. see fpl - fpl regulation for further discussion of ferc, nerc and epa regulations and nee environmental matters. the puct has jurisdiction over a wide range of lone star's business activities, including, among others, rates charged to customers and certain aspects of siting, construction and operation of transmission systems. the puct sets rates at a level that allows lone star the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to lone star's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. in october 2012, the puct reached a decision in lone star's initial rate case proceeding. in january 2013, the puct, during rehearing, approved lone star's wholesale transmission service rate reflecting an annual revenue requirement for, among other things, capital investment of approximately $49 million, a regulatory equity ratio of 45%, an allowed regulatory roe of 9.6% and other operating expenses. the remaining capital investment will be included in lone star's rates by means of an interim rate adjustment mechanism. in addition, lone star must file a general rate case, with a full 12-month historical test year, within four months of having 12 months of historical operating data, which is expected to occur in mid-2014. nht nht, a rate-regulated transmission owner in iso-ne, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. nht owns transmission facilities which connect neer's seabrook nuclear facility to the new england transmission grid and interconnect three 345 kv transmission lines in new england. nht is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the new hampshire public utility commission, iso-ne, the ferc, the nerc and the epa. see fpl - fpl regulation for further discussion of ferc, nerc and epa regulations and nee environmental matters. nht wholesale transmission revenues are provided through an iso-ne tariff. 20 table of contents fpl fibernet fpl fibernet conducts its business through two separate wholly-owned subsidiaries of neech. one subsidiary was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of nee's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support fpl operations and the other was formed in 2011 to hold fiber-optic network assets which were acquired. both subsidiaries are limited liability companies organized under the laws of delaware. fpl fibernet leases fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to fpl and other customers, primarily telephone, wireless, internet and other telecommunications companies. fpl fibernet's networks cover most of the metropolitan areas in florida and several in texas. fpl fibernet also has a long-haul network providing bandwidth at wholesale rates. the long-haul network connects major cities in florida and texas with additional connectivity to atlanta, georgia and the south central u.s., including arkansas, louisiana and oklahoma. at december 31, 2012, fpl fibernet's network consisted of approximately 8,600 route miles. fpl fibernet is subject to regulation by the federal communications commission which has jurisdiction over wire and wireless communication networks and by the public utility commissions in the states in which it provides intrastate telecommunication services. nee environmental matters nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. the u.s. congress and certain states and regions continue to consider several legislative and regulatory proposals with respect to ghg emissions. the economic and operational impact of climate change legislation on nee and fpl depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the allowed emissions, whether emission allowances will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance. based on the most recent reference data available from government sources, nee is among the lowest emitters, among electric generators, of ghg in the u.s. measured by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of co 2 per mwh of generation. however, the legislative and regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on fpl's and neer's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to nee and fpl could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any specific implementation rules adopted. i. environmental regulations the following is a discussion of certain existing and emerging federal and state initiatives and rules, some of which could potentially have a material effect (either positive or negative) on nee and its subsidiaries. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. clean air interstate rule (cair)/cross-state air pollution rule (csapr). the epa's cair requires so 2 and nox emissions reductions from electric generating units in specified eastern states and the district of columbia, where the emissions from electric generating units are deemed to be transported to downwind states. neer and fpl began complying with the cair on january 1, 2009. in july 2011, the epa issued the csapr, a final rule which was to replace the cair beginning in january 2012. the csapr would limit emissions of so 2 and nox from power plants in 28 eastern states and provides an allocation methodology for emission allowances and reduction limits for so 2 , nox and seasonal ozone requirements. in august 2012, the d.c. circuit vacated the csapr and remanded it back to the epa for further rulemaking. the d.c. circuit ordered that the cair remain in place until such time that the epa promulgates a valid replacement. several parties, including the epa, filed for rehearing, which the d.c. circuit denied in january 2013. those parties have until april 2013 to seek review by the u.s. supreme court. clean water act section 316(b). in march 2011, the epa issued a proposed rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act to address the location, design, construction and capacity of intake structures at existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems, with a final rule expected by the summer of 2013. the proposed rule is intended to require the best technology available to reduce the impact on aquatic organisms from once-through cooling water intake systems. under the proposed rule, potentially thirteen of fpl's facilities and five of neer's facilities may be required to add additional controls and/or make operational changes to comply, the economic and operational impact of which cannot be determined at this time, but could be material. prior to the passage of a new rule, states are continuing to utilize "best professional judgment" in the application of section 316(b) compliance requirements. regulation of ghg emissions. the epa continues to evaluate regulatory options under the clean air act for existing fossil fuel-fired power units. the epa's proposed rule is anticipated in either late 2013 or early 2014 and could be finalized in late 2014. this epa guidance will direct each state to develop their respective state implementation plan which will set forth the program requirements within that state, and compliance would be expected over several years. revisions to the national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for particulate matter. in december 2012, the epa proposed a rule revision for particulate matter naaqs to lower the annual pm2.5 standard, which proposed rule is not expected to have a significant impact on fpl or neer facilities. 21 table of contents avian/bat regulations and wind turbine siting guidelines. neer and fpl are subject to numerous environmental regulations and guidelines related to threatened and endangered species and their habitats, as well as avian and bat species, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. the facilities most significantly affected are wind facilities and transmission and distribution lines. the environmental laws include, among others, the endangered species act, the migratory bird treaty act, and the bald and golden eagle protection act which provide for protection of migratory birds, eagles and endangered species of birds and bats and their habitats. regulations have been adopted under some of these laws that contain provisions that allow the owner/operator of a facility to apply for a permit to undertake specific activities including those associated with certain siting decisions, construction activities and operations. in addition to regulations, voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines established by the u.s. fish and wildlife service set forth siting, monitoring and coordination protocols that are designed to support wind development in the u.s. while also protecting both birds and bats and their habitats. these guidelines include provisions for specific monitoring and study conditions which need to be met in order for projects to be in adherence with these voluntary guidelines. complying with these environmental regulations and adhering to the provisions set forth in the voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines could result in additional costs at existing and new wind generating facilities and transmission and distribution facilities at neer and fpl. ii. other ghg emissions reduction initiatives neer's plants operate in certain states and regions that continue to consider and implement regulatory proposals to reduce ghg emissions. rps, currently in place in approximately 30 states and the district of columbia, require electricity providers in the state or district to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources. these standards vary, but the majority include requirements to meet 10% to 25% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025. neer's plants operate in 19 states that have a rps and neer believes that these standards will create incremental demand for renewable energy in the future. other ghg reduction initiatives including, among others, the regional greenhouse gas initiative and the california greenhouse gas regulation aim to reduce emissions through a variety of programs and under varying timelines. based on its clean generating portfolio, neer expects to continue experiencing a positive impact on earnings as a result of these ghg reduction initiatives. additionally, these initiatives provide neer opportunities with regards to wind and solar development as well as favorable energy pricing. website access to sec filings nee and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on nee's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information and materials available on nee's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined form 10-k. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. 22 table of contents executive officers of nee (a) name age position effective date paul i. cutler 53 treasurer of nee treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of nee february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 moray p. dewhurst 57 vice chairman and chief financial officer, and executive vice president - finance of nee executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl october 5, 2011 shaun j. francis 41 executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of nee executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of fpl january 1, 2013 chris n. froggatt 55 vice president of nee controller and chief accounting officer of nee october 19, 2009 february 27, 2010 lewis hay, iii 57 executive chairman of nee july 1, 2012 joseph t. kelliher 52 executive vice president, federal regulatory affairs of nee may 18, 2009 manoochehr k. nazar 58 executive vice president, nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of nee executive vice president, nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of fpl january 1, 2010 january 15, 2010 armando pimentel, jr. 50 president and chief executive officer of neer october 5, 2011 james l. robo 50 president and chief executive officer of nee chairman and chief executive officer of fpl july 1, 2012 may 2, 2012 antonio rodriguez (b) 70 executive vice president, power generation division of nee executive vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2007 july 1, 1999 charles e. sieving 40 executive vice president &amp; general counsel of nee executive vice president of fpl december 1, 2008 january 1, 2009 eric e. silagy 47 president of fpl december 16, 2011 william l. yeager 54 executive vice president, engineering, construction &amp; integrated supply chain of nee executive vice president, engineering, construction &amp; integrated supply chain of fpl january 1, 2013 ______________________ (a) information is as of february 27, 2013 . executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his present position for five years or more and his employment history is continuous. mr. dewhurst has been vice chairman of nee since august 2009 and was chief of staff of nee from august 2009 to october 2011. from july 2001 to may 2008, mr. dewhurst was vice president, finance and chief financial officer of nee and senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl. mr. francis has been executive vice president of human resources of nee since august 2010 and executive vice president of human resources of fpl since january 2011. mr. francis was general manager of human resources for a division of general electric company, ge transportation, a supplier to the railroad, marine, drilling, mining and wind power industries from february 2008 to august 2010. mr. froggatt was the vice president and treasurer of pinnacle west capital corporation, a public utility holding company, and its major subsidiary, arizona public service company (aps), a regulated electric utility, from december 2008 to october 2009. from october 2002 to december 2008, mr. froggatt was vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of aps. mr. hay was chief executive officer of nee from june 2001 to june 2012. mr. hay was also chairman of nee from january 2002 to june 2012 and chairman of fpl from january 2002 to may 2012. from january 2002 to july 2008, mr. hay was also chief executive officer of fpl. mr. kelliher was chairman of the ferc from july 2005 to january 2009. mr. nazar was the chief nuclear officer of nee from january 2009 to december 2009. from january 2009 to january 2010, mr. nazar was the senior vice president and chief nuclear officer of fpl. mr. nazar was senior vice president and nuclear chief operating officer of fpl from november 2007 to january 2009. mr. pimentel was chief financial officer of nee and fpl from may 2008 to october 2011 and executive vice president, finance of nee and fpl from february 2008 to october 2011. mr. robo was president and chief operating officer of nee from december 2006 to june 2012. mr. sieving was also assistant secretary of nee from may 2010 to may 2011 and general counsel of fpl from january 2009 to may 2010. mr. sieving was executive vice president, general counsel and secretary of paetec holding corp., a communications services and solutions provider, from february 2007 to november 2008 and was primarily responsible for all legal and regulatory matters. mr. silagy was senior vice president, regulatory and state governmental affairs of fpl from may 2010 to december 2011. mr. silagy was vice president and chief development officer of fpl from july 2008 to may 2010. from november 2007 to july 2008, mr. silagy was vice president, development of fpl. mr. yeager was vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain services of nee and fpl from october 2012 to december 2012. mr. yeager was vice president, integrated supply chain of nee and fpl from may 2011 to october 2012. from january 2005 to may 2011, mr. yeager was vice president, engineering and construction of fpl. (b) nee title changed from vice president to executive vice president effective may 23, 2008 and fpl title changed from senior vice president to executive vice president effective july 17, 2008. 23 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to nee's and fpl's business the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of nee and fpl. the following is a description of important risks that may adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl and may cause actual results of nee and fpl to differ substantially from those that nee or fpl currently expects or seeks. in that event, the market price for the securities of nee or fpl could decline. accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that nee and fpl file with the sec. the risks described below are not the only risks facing nee and fpl. additional risks and uncertainties may also materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. each of nee and fpl has disclosed the material risks known to it to affect its business at this time. however, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may in the future adversely affect the performance or financial condition of nee and fpl. regulatory, legislative and legal risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. the operations of nee and fpl are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. this extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, nee's and fpl's industries, rates and cost structures, operation of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, transmission and fuel storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. in their business planning and in the management of their operations, nee and fpl must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or an appropriate return on capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. fpl is a regulated entity subject to the jurisdiction of the fpsc over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers, issuance of securities, and aspects of the siting and operation of its generating plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that fpl is permitted to earn on its investments. the regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in florida and elsewhere, limits fpl's ability to increase earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or an appropriate return on capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. lone star, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of nee that is a regulated electric transmission utility subject to the jurisdiction of the puct, is subject to similar risks. regulatory decisions that are important to nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. the local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on fpsc decisions with negative consequences for fpl. these decisions may require, for example, fpl to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. lone star is subject to similar risks. fpl's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the fpsc. in the event that the fpsc engages in a prudence review of fpl's use of derivative instruments and finds such use to be imprudent, the fpsc could deny cost recovery for such use by fpl. such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 24 table of contents any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives that support renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer depends heavily on government policies that support renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which neer operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. the federal government, a majority of the 50 u.s. states and portions of canada and spain provide incentives, such as tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, that support the sale of energy from renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. as a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their policies that support renewable energy and consider actions to make the policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives that support renewable energy, such as those reductions that have been enacted in spain and are applicable to the spain solar projects in that country, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations or interpretations or other regulatory initiatives. nee's and fpl's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and environmental regulation, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. changes in the nature of the regulation of nee's and fpl's business could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's results of operations. nee and fpl are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on nee and fpl, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. fpl has limited competition in the florida market for retail electricity customers. any changes in florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the florida retail electricity market could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be no assurance that fpl will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer is subject to ferc rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. nee cannot predict the impact of changing ferc rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond nee's control. there can be no assurance that neer will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any other changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if the rules implementing the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) broaden the scope of its provisions regarding the regulation of otc financial derivatives and make them applicable to nee and fpl. the dodd-frank act, enacted into law in july 2010, among other things, provides for the regulation of the otc derivatives market. the dodd-frank act includes provisions that will require certain otc derivatives, or swaps, to be centrally cleared and executed through an exchange or other approved trading platform. while the legislation is broad and detailed, there are still substantial portions of the legislation that either require implementing rules to be adopted by federal governmental agencies including, but not limited to, the sec and the cftc or otherwise require further interpretation guidance from federal government agencies. nee and fpl cannot predict the final rules that will be adopted to implement the otc derivatives market provisions of the dodd-frank act (or the ultimate interpretation of those rules). those rules could negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's results of operations. nee is reviewing the scope of these rules and is evaluating whether it may have portions of its business that may be required to register as swap dealers or major swap participants and submit to extensive regulation if it wishes to continue certain aspects of its derivative activities. the rules could also cause neer to restructure part of its energy marketing and trading operations or to discontinue certain portions of its business. in addition, if the rules require nee and fpl to post significant amounts of cash collateral with respect to swap transactions, nee's and fpl's liquidity could be materially adversely affected, and their ability to enter into otc derivatives to hedge commodity and interest rate risks could be significantly limited. reporting and compliance requirements of 25 table of contents the rules also could significantly increase operating costs and expose nee and fpl to penalties for non-compliance. the dodd-frank act or other initiatives also could impede the efficient operation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, which could also materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities. nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 , waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and rps that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new legislation, the current trend toward more stringent standards, and stricter and more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. for example, among other potential or pending changes, the use of hydraulic fracturing or similar technologies to drill for natural gas and related compounds used by nee's gas infrastructure business is currently being debated for potential regulation at the state and federal levels. violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose nee and fpl to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. proceedings could include, for example, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements such as air, water and soil quality standards. nee's and fpl's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co2 and methane, from electric generating units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. the potential effects of such greenhouse gas emission limits on nee's and fpl's electric generating units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. while nee's and fpl's electric generating units emit greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the u.s. electric generation sector, the results of operations of nee and fpl could be adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state legislation or regulators impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; make some of nee's and fpl's electric generating units uneconomical to operate in the long term; require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. there can be no assurance that nee or fpl would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. extensive federal regulation of the operations of nee and fpl exposes nee and fpl to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. nee and fpl are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on nee's and fpl's operations. additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. as an example, under the energy policy act of 2005, nee and fpl, as owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject nee and fpl to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if fpl or nee is found not to be in compliance with these standards, it may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 26 table of contents changes in tax laws, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations, the financial condition and results of operations of nee and fpl, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. ultimate resolution of income tax matters may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could negatively affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings in which nee is involved or other future legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, class action lawsuits, may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. operational risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if nee and fpl do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. nee's and fpl's ability to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, native american and aboriginal groups, and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. if any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may otherwise be available, and nee and fpl could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns and could be required to write-off all or a portion of their investment in the project. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. nee and fpl own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generating and transmission facilities. a key component of nee's and fpl's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. as part of these operations, nee and fpl must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. should nee or fpl be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on nee or fpl, nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at potentially higher prices. 27 table of contents uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining nee's and fpl's facilities include, but are not limited to: risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and droughts; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires or other major events, of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines; availability of replacement equipment; risks of property damage or human injury from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires or other events; availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; inability to manage properly or mitigate known equipment defects in nee's and fpl's facilities; use of new or unproven technology; risks associated with dependence on a specific fuel source, such as commodity price risk and lack of available alternative fuel sources; increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply and shifting demand; and insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities. customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of nee and fpl, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management goals, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. a lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity may cause nee and fpl to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's own growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. in addition, severe weather, such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect fuel supply, and require nee and fpl to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, obtain replacement power and access available financing sources. furthermore, nee's and fpl's physical plant could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to fpl, a change in sea level. fpl operates in the east and lower west coasts of florida, an area that historically has been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. a disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent nee and fpl from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. at fpl and other businesses of nee where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generating facilities, including, but not limited to, neer's wind, solar and hydro-powered facilities. for example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generating facilities. because the levels of wind, solar and hydro resources are variable and difficult to predict, neer's results of operations for individual wind, solar and hydro facilities specifically, and nee's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. to the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. 28 table of contents threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt nee's and fpl's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. nee's and fpl's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or be indirectly affected by, such activities. terrorist acts or other similar events affecting nee's and fpl's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which nee and fpl rely, could harm nee's and fpl's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power, by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generating facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. these events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), and reputational damage, could adversely affect nee's and fpl's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair nee's and fpl's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. nee's and fpl's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to nee and fpl. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. if insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, nee or fpl may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. nee and fpl generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. for example, fpl is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but would instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the fpsc, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. a loss for which nee or fpl is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if supply costs necessary to provide neer's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. the supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. neer may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, neer's inability or failure to hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair nee's results of operations. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. nee's inability to manage properly or hedge the commodity risks within its portfolios, based on factors both from within or wholly or partially outside of nee's control, may materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. sales of power on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis may cause nee's results of operations to be volatile. a portion of neer's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis. spot market sales are subject to market volatility, and the revenue generated from these sales is subject to fluctuation that may cause nee's results of operations to be volatile. neer and nee may not be able to manage volatility adequately, which could then have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of nee to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect nee's results of operations. 29 table of contents nee is an active participant in energy markets. the liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in the company's ability to manage risks in these operations. over the past several years, other market participants have ceased or significantly reduced their activities in energy markets as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to, government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, nee's and fpl's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. nee and fpl have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. nee and fpl are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks. additionally, risk management tools and metrics such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, nee and fpl are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. such adverse effects could be material. if power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, fpl's and neer's ability to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. fpl and neer depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond fpl's and neer's control (such as severe weather or a generator or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt the ability of fpl and neer to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. nee and fpl are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with nee and fpl. if any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, nee and fpl may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. if a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, nee and fpl may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if nee or fpl is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. nee and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the otc markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for nee to engage in trading and marketing activities. any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. similarly, any requirement for fpl or nee to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite nee's and fpl's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. if nee's or fpl's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, and nee or fpl was unable to recover in a timely way, nee and fpl would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised. 30 table of contents nee's and fpl's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. due to the size, scope and geographical reach of nee's and fpl's business, and due to the complexity of the process of power generation, transmission and distribution, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process this information is both critical and extremely challenging. nee's and fpl's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside, their control, such as operator error, severe weather or terrorist activities. any such failure or disabling event could adversely affect nee's and fpl's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their financial results and liquidity. nee and fpl add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues, the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. nee and fpl also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. nee's and fpl's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in an adverse impact to their reputation and/or the results of operations of the retail business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. if a significant breach occurred, the reputation of nee and fpl could be adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. nee and fpl would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or nee and fpl could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in otc markets. nee and fpl execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the otc markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. transactions executed in otc markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. as a result, nee and fpl may not be able to execute desired otc transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may be adversely affected by negative publicity. from time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting nee and fpl. adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from nee's and fpl's business. addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of nee and fpl, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with their respective regulators. it may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. the direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in florida. 31 table of contents fpl must negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of fpl's revenues. if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and fpl may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. increasing costs associated with health care plans may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's results of operations. the costs of providing health care benefits to employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years. nee and fpl anticipate that their employee benefit costs, including, but not limited to, costs related to health care plans for employees and former employees, will continue to rise. the increasing costs and funding requirements associated with nee's and fpl's health care plans may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be negatively affected by the lack of a qualified workforce or the loss or retirement of key employees. nee and fpl may not be able to service customers, grow their business or generally meet their other business plan goals effectively and profitably if they do not attract and retain a qualified workforce. additionally, the loss or retirement of key executives and other employees may materially adversely affect service and productivity and contribute to higher training and safety costs. over the next several years, a significant portion of nee's and fpl's workforce, including, but not limited to, many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the nuclear generation facilities and electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire. such highly skilled individuals may not be able to be replaced quickly due to the technically complex work they perform. if a significant amount of such workers retire and are not replaced, the subsequent loss in productivity and increased recruiting and training costs could result in a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these consequences could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. nee is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry in general. in addition, nee may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. nuclear generation risks the construction, operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. nee and fpl maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in nee's and fpl's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. if nee or fpl is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of fpl, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. in the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, nee and fpl could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. 32 table of contents liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the price-anderson act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. in accordance with this act, nee maintains $375 million of private liability insurance per site, which is the maximum obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides up to $12.2 billion of liability insurance coverage per incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. under the secondary financial protection system, nee is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums of up to $940 million ($470 million for fpl), plus any applicable taxes, per incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident, payable at a rate not to exceed $140 million ($70 million for fpl) per incident per year. such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require nee and fpl to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities. the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a nuclear generation facility, or to take both of these actions, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. any of the foregoing events could require nee and fpl to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. any serious nuclear incident occurring at a nee or fpl plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. an incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the nrc to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. the inability to operate any of neer's or fpl's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the operating licenses for nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities extend through at least 2030. if the facilities cannot be operated for any reason through the life of those operating licenses, nee or fpl may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. various hazards posed to nuclear generation facilities, along with increased public attention to and awareness of such hazards, could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs which are difficult or impossible to predict and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the threat of terrorist activity, as well as recent international events implicating the safety of nuclear facilities, could result in more stringent or complex measures to keep facilities safe from a variety of hazards, including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis, as well as terrorist or other criminal threats. this increased focus on safety could result in higher compliance costs which, at present, cannot be assessed with any measure of certainty and which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. if planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, nee's and fpl's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. in addition, outages may be scheduled, often in connection with a refueling outage, to replace equipment, to increase the generation capacity at a particular nuclear unit, or for other purposes, and those planned activities increase the time the unit is not in operation. in the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. liquidity, capital requirements and common stock risks disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of nee and fpl. 33 table of contents nee and fpl rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets, including, but not limited to, the conditions of the most recent financial crises in the u.s. and abroad, could increase nee's and fpl's cost of capital. if nee or fpl is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. although nee's competitive energy subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. the inability of nee's subsidiaries to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific financing for electric-generating and other energy facilities on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by nee and/or neech in the future. the inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. such an occurrence also could result in nee expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. any of these actions could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for nee or its subsidiaries. nee's, neech's and fpl's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of nee and fpl to grow their business, and increase interest costs. the inability of nee, neech and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact nee's and fpl's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, and political, legislative and regulatory actions. there can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of nee, neech and fpl will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. nee's and fpl's liquidity may be impaired if their creditors are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. the inability of nee's, neech's and fpl's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require nee, neech or fpl, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity. poor market performance and other economic factors could affect nee's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations. nee sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of nee and its subsidiaries. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. nee's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since, as interest rates decrease the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of nee's and fpl's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations. nee and fpl are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. certain of nee's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may adversely affect nee's liquidity and financial results. 34 table of contents nee holds other investments where changes in the fair value affect nee's financial results. in some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. this type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. a sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on nee's financial condition and results of operations. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to nee. nee is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. substantially all of nee's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. nee's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to nee. nee's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide nee with funds for its payment obligations. the subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can fund nee. in addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, nee's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. the dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. the future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of nee's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if nee is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. nee guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than fpl, through guarantee agreements with neech. these guarantees may require nee to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when nee is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect nee's ability to pay dividends. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of nee's common stock. the market price and trading volume of nee's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of nee and its subsidiaries. as a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of nee's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity. 70 table of contentsrisk factors 25 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on nee's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause nee's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of nee and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and nee and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nextera energy, inc. (hereafter, nee) is one of the largest electric power companies in north america, with approximately 42,500 mw of generating capacity in 26 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada, and employing approximately 13,900 people as of december 31, 2013. nee provides retail and wholesale electric services to nearly 5 million customers and owns generation, transmission and distribution facilities to support its services. it also purchases electric power for resale to its customers and provides risk management services related to power and gas consumption for a limited number of wholesale customers in selected markets. nee is the largest generator in north america of renewable energy from the wind and sun. nee owns and operates approximately 17% of the installed base of u.s. wind power production capacity and owns and/or operates approximately 14% of the installed base of u.s. utility-scale solar power production capacity as of december 31, 2013. nee also owns and operates one of the largest fleets of nuclear power stations in the u.s., with eight reactors at five sites located in four states, representing approximately 6% of u.s. nuclear power electric generating capacity as of december 31, 2013. nee's business strategy has emphasized the development, acquisition and operation of renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired generation facilities in response to long-term federal policy trends supportive of zero and low air emissions sources of power. nee's generation fleet has significantly lower rates of emissions of co 2 , so 2 and nox than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry with approximately 96% of its 2013 generation, measured by mwh produced, coming from renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired facilities. certain environmental attributes of the wholesale business' electric generating facilities, such as renewable energy credits (recs), emissions reductions, offsets, allowances and the avoided emission of ghg pollutants, have been or likely will be sold or transferred to third parties, who are solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes. nee was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida and conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, florida power &amp; light company (hereafter, fpl) and nextera energy resources, llc (hereafter, neer). nextera energy capital holdings, inc. (hereafter, neech), another wholly-owned subsidiary of nee, owns and provides funding for neer's and nee's other operating subsidiaries, other than fpl and its subsidiaries. nee's two principal businesses also constitute nee's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. fpl is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in florida. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. based on retail mwh sales. fpl is vertically integrated, with approximately 24,300 mw of generating capacity as of december 31, 2013. fpl's investments in its infrastructure since 2001, such as modernizing less-efficient fossil generating plants to produce more energy with less fuel and fewer air emissions, increasing generating capacity at its existing nuclear units and upgrading its transmission and distribution systems to deliver service reliability that is the best of the florida investor-owned utilities, have provided significant benefits to fpl's customers, all while providing residential and commercial bills that were among the lowest in florida and below the national average based on a rate per kwh as of july 2013 (the latest date for which this data is available). with approximately 94% of its power generation coming from natural gas, nuclear and solar, fpl is also one of the cleanest electric utilities in the nation. based on 2013 information, fpl's emissions rates for co 2 , so 2 and nox were 35%, 97% and 71% lower, respectively, than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry. neer, with approximately 18,300 mw of generating capacity at december 31, 2013, is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with nearly 17,800 mw of generating capacity across 24 states, and with approximately 400 mw in 4 canadian provinces. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources, including wind and solar. neer also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities, participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production and pipeline infrastructure development and owns a retail electricity provider. 4 table of contents neech's other business activities are primarily conducted through neet and fpl fibernet. neet conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, lone star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in texas, and nht, a rate-regulated transmission owner in new hampshire. fpl fibernet delivers wholesale and enterprise telecommunications services in florida, texas and certain areas of the south central u.s. nee seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors, as described in more detail in the following sections. nee's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both fpl and neer. management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities open to it; however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by fpl and neer is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise and recognizes that each business contributes to nee's credit profile in different ways. fpl and neer, as well as other nee subsidiaries, share common support functions with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses. during 2013, nee and its subsidiaries commenced an enterprise-wide initiative focused mainly on improving productivity and reducing o&amp;m expenses (cost savings initiative), and management expects to continue those efforts over the near term. nee's operating subsidiaries i. fpl fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925 and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of nee. fpl is a rate-regulated electric utility and is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. based on retail mwh sales. fpl, with 24,273 mw of generating capacity at december 31, 2013, supplies electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of florida, serving more than 9 million people through approximately 4.7 million customer accounts. at december 31, 2013, fpl's service territory and plant locations are as follows (see item 2 - generating facilities): franchise agreements and competition fpl's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. alternatively, municipalities and counties may form their own utility companies to provide service to their residents. in a very few cases, an fpl franchise agreement provides the respective municipality the right to buy the electrical assets serving local residents at the end of the agreement. however, during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and fpl has the right to offer electric service to residents. fpl currently holds 177 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2043. six of these franchise agreements expire in 2014, four expire in 2015 and 167 expire during the period 2016 through 2043. these franchise agreements cover approximately 85% of fpl's retail customer base in florida. negotiations are ongoing to renew the franchise agreements that expire in 2014 and 2015. fpl considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. fpl also provides service to 12 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility. fpl relies upon florida law for access to public rights of way. 5 table of contents because any customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, fpl effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. as a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since fpl's cost of service is substantially lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. changing technology, economic conditions and other factors could alter the favorable relative cost position that fpl currently enjoys; however, fpl seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of high reliability, low bills and excellent customer service. in addition to self-generation by residential, commercial and industrial customers, fpl also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources. in each of 2013, 2012 and 2011, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 3% of fpl's total operating revenues. fpl expects revenues from wholesale sales to increase in 2014 primarily due to an increase in contracted load served under existing wholesale contracts. the fpsc promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam and solar generating capacity by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, including fpl, to issue an rfp except when the fpsc determines that an exception from the rfp process is in the public interest. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. new nuclear power plants and combustion turbines are exempt from the rfp requirement. see fpl sources of generation - fossil operations and nuclear operations below. customers and revenue fpl's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within florida. beginning in 2013, operating revenues include gains associated with an incentive mechanism allowed under the 2012 rate agreement (see fpl regulation - fpl rate regulation - base rates - rates effective january 2013 - december 2016); such gains are included in other in the chart below. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues and customer accounts by customer class were as follows: for both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that fpl may charge are approved by regulatory bodies, by the fpsc in the case of retail customers, and by the ferc in the case of wholesale customers. in general, under u.s. and florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including an appropriate rate of return on capital employed. since the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed, there can be no guarantee that fpl will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates. see fpl regulation below. 6 table of contents fpl seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low cost position. the ideas generated from the cost savings initiative are expected to keep fpl's o&amp;m expenses recovered through base rates flat through 2016 as compared to 2012. a common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the price of 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer. fpl's 2013 average bill for 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was the lowest among reporting electric utilities within florida as indicated below: power delivery fpl provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers. fpl also maintains interconnection facilities with neighboring utilities and non-utility generators inside its territory, enabling it to buy and sell wholesale electricity and to enhance the reliability of its own network and support the reliability of neighboring networks. fpl's transmission system carries high voltage electricity from its generating facilities to substations where the electricity is stepped down to lower voltage levels and is sent through the distribution system to its customers. a key element of fpl's strategy is to provide highly reliable service to its customers. the transmission and distribution system is susceptible to interruptions or outages from a wide variety of sources including weather, animal and vegetation interference, traffic accidents, equipment failure and many others, and fpl seeks to reduce or eliminate outages where economically practical and to restore service rapidly when outages occur. a common industry benchmark for transmission and distribution system reliability is the system average interruption duration index (saidi), which represents the number of minutes the average customer is without power during a time period. for the five years 2008 - 2012, fpl's average annual saidi was the best of the investor-owned utilities in florida. fpl is accelerating its existing storm hardening and reliability program through 2016, to continue strengthening its infrastructure against tropical storms and hurricanes. also, during 2013, fpl completed the final installation of approximately 4.5 million smart meters and other equipment, as part of its commitment to building a smarter, more reliable and efficient electric infrastructure. fpl system capability and load at december 31, 2013, fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 26,236 mw, of which 24,273 mw were from fpl-owned facilities (see item 2 - generating facilities) and 1,963 mw were available through purchased power agreements (see fpl sources of generation - purchased power below). fpl customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. the highest peak load fpl has served to date was 24,346 mw, which occurred on january 11, 2010. fpl had adequate resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand. fpl's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2014 is approximately 28%. this reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of available output from fpl's active generating units, purchased power agreements and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of demand side management programs, including load management which was estimated at december 31, 2013 to be capable of reducing demand by 1,870 mw, and energy efficiency and conservation programs. see fpl sources of generation - fossil operations and nuclear operations below regarding generation projects currently under construction. 7 table of contents fpl sources of generation fpl relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generating facilities, along with purchased power, in order to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix by responding to market and industry developments. see descriptions of fossil, nuclear and solar operations below and a listing of fpl's generating facilities in item 2 - generating facilities. fpl's 2013 fuel mix based on mwh produced, including purchased power, was as follows: fossil operations (natural gas, coal and oil) at december 31, 2013, fpl owned and operated 71 units that used fossil fuels, primarily natural gas, and had a joint ownership interest in 3 coal units. combined, the fossil fleet provided 20,785 mw of generating capacity for fpl. these fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity demand. a common industry benchmark for fossil unit reliability is the equivalent forced outage rate (efor), which represents a generating unit's inability to provide electricity when required to operate. for the five years 2008 - 2012, fpl's average annual efor was in the top decile among its electric utility fossil fleet peers in the u.s. fpl's natural gas plants require natural gas transportation, supply and storage. fpl has firm transportation contracts in place for existing pipeline capacity with five different transportation suppliers. these agreements provide for an aggregate maximum delivery quantity of 1,969,000 mmbtu/day with expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2036 that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of the currently anticipated needs for natural gas transportation through 2016. to the extent desirable, fpl also purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from these natural gas transportation suppliers based on pipeline availability. fpl has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. fpl has an agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2017. see note 13 - contracts. in october 2013, the fpsc approved fpl's 25-year natural gas transportation agreements with each of sabal trail and florida southeast connection for a quantity of 400,000 mmbtu/day beginning on may 1, 2017 and increasing to 600,000 mmbtu/day on may 1, 2020. fpl's firm commitments under the agreements are contingent upon the occurrence of certain events, including ferc approval and completion of construction of the pipeline to be built by each of sabal trail and florida southeast connection. a ferc decision is expected in 2015. see other nee operating subsidiaries - natural gas pipeline system below and note 13 - contracts. these new agreements are expected to enable fpl to satisfy substantially all of its natural gas transportation needs through at least 2020. st. johns river power park (sjrpp) units nos. 1 and 2, coal-fired units in which fpl has a joint ownership interest, have firm coal supply contracts and a firm transportation contract for a portion of their fuel and transportation needs through 2016. scherer unit no. 4, the other coal-fired unit in which fpl has a joint ownership interest, has firm coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of its fuel needs and all of its transportation needs through 2015. any of the remaining fuel and transportation requirements for these coal-fired units will be obtained in the spot market. see note 13 - contracts. with respect to its oil plants, fpl obtains its fuel requirements in the spot market. modernization projects. in april 2013, fpl placed in service, ahead of schedule and below budgeted construction cost, an approximately 1,210 mw natural gas-fired combined-cycle modernized unit at its cape canaveral power plant. fpl is in the process 8 table of contents of modernizing its riviera beach and port everglades power plants to high-efficiency natural gas-fired units that are expected to provide approximately 1,200 mw and 1,240 mw of capacity, respectively, and be placed in service in the second quarter of 2014 and by mid-2016, respectively. potential gas turbine replacement project. by the second quarter of 2014, fpl expects to begin monitoring emissions from the peaking gas turbines at its lauderdale power plant for the purpose of confirming air-quality modeling that indicates exceedances of air quality standards for nitrogen dioxide (no 2 ) at its lauderdale and port everglades power plants. if the monitoring confirms the modeled exceedances, fpl will be required to reduce no 2 emissions from these two power plants. currently, fpl expects that the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the required emission reductions will be to retire these gas turbines, totaling 1,260 mw of capacity, and replace them with modern, low-emission combustion turbines, totaling approximately 1,005 mw of capacity. fpl plans to evaluate the results of the monitoring at the lauderdale power plant, among other factors, to determine what action, if any, is indicated for the peaking gas turbines at its fort myers power plant. nuclear operations at december 31, 2013, fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 3,453 mw. this includes approximately 520 mw of generating capacity added from the generation power uprate project completed in 2013. facility mw operating license expiration dates st. lucie unit no. 1 981 2036 st. lucie unit no. 2 840 2043 turkey point unit no. 3 811 2032 turkey point unit no. 4 821 2033 fpl has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from march 2014 through 2023. see note 13 - commitments. nrc regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the applicable operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 commencing in 2043. projects to add additional capacity. fpl's need petition for two additional nuclear units at its turkey point site was approved by the fpsc in 2008 and fpl is moving forward with activities necessary to obtain all permits, licenses and approvals necessary for construction and operation of the units. the two units are expected to add a total of approximately 2,200 mw of capacity and are projected to be placed in-service in 2022 and 2023. such in-service dates could be impacted by various regulatory approvals from the fpsc and other regulatory agencies which will be required throughout the licensing and development processes, as well as other regulatory actions. nuclear unit scheduled refueling outages. fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. the following table summarizes each unit's next scheduled refueling outage: facility next scheduled refueling outage st. lucie unit no. 1 march 2015 st. lucie unit no. 2 march 2014 turkey point unit no. 3 march 2014 turkey point unit no. 4 september 2014 spent nuclear fuel. fpl's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. in 2010, the nrc amended its waste confidence rule to support the determination that licensees can safely store spent nuclear fuel at nuclear power plants for up to 60 years beyond the original and renewed licensed operating life of the plants. several parties petitioned the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia (d.c. circuit) to challenge the revised rule and in 2012, the d.c. 9 table of contents circuit vacated the rule and remanded it back to the nrc. the nrc determined that no final licenses would be issued until the required revisions to the waste confidence rule are made, which revisions are not expected to be finalized before late 2014. nuclear waste policy act of 1982, as amended (nuclear waste policy act) - under the nuclear waste policy act, the doe is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. as required by the nuclear waste policy act, fpl is a party to contracts with the doe to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its nuclear units. the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. the doe did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the nuclear waste policy act. in 2009, fpl and certain of fpl's nuclear plant joint owners entered into a settlement agreement (spent fuel settlement agreement) with the u.s. government agreeing to dismiss with prejudice lawsuits filed against the u.s. government seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from fpl's nuclear plants. the spent fuel settlement agreement permits fpl to make annual filings to recover certain spent fuel storage costs incurred by fpl which are reimbursable by the u.s. government on an annual basis. in a separate lawsuit filed in 2011, fpl joined the nuclear energy institute and several other nuclear plant owners and operators (petitioners) in petitioning the d.c. circuit to challenge the doe's decision to continue to collect the nuclear waste fee. in june 2012, the d.c. circuit ruled, which ruling was confirmed in november 2013, that the doe's fee adequacy determination was legally defective. in november 2013, the d.c. circuit directed the doe to submit a proposal to the u.s. congress to change the fee to zero until the doe complies with the nuclear waste policy act or until congress enacts an alternative waste management plan. in january 2014, the doe sent the court-mandated proposal to adjust the fee, subject to any further judicial decision in the proceeding, to the heads of both the u.s. senate and the u.s. house of representatives and, at the same time, filed a petition with the d.c. circuit to rehear the matter. if a rehearing is granted, the d.c. circuit's earlier directive that the doe submit a proposal to congress for changing the fee to zero would be stayed, which decision on rehearing is expected in the first quarter of 2014. fpl will continue to pay fees to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund pending congressional approval of and implementation of a zero-fee proposal. yucca mountain - in march 2010, the doe filed a motion with the nrc to withdraw its license application for a nuclear waste repository at yucca mountain, which request was denied. in september 2011, the nrc issued an order suspending the yucca mountain licensing proceeding, which order was challenged, and in august 2013, the d.c. circuit issued an order requiring the nrc to proceed with the legally mandated licensing process for a nuclear waste repository at yucca mountain. as a result, the nrc is taking steps toward completing the technical review of the application and has requested the doe to complete its supplemental environmental impact statement. in light of its march 2010 motion not to proceed with the yucca mountain repository project, the doe established a blue ribbon commission on america's nuclear future (brc) to conduct a comprehensive review of policies for managing the back end of the nuclear fuel cycle and to provide recommendations for developing a safe, long-term solution to managing spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. in 2012, the brc issued its report and recommendations which includes a consent-based approach to site future nuclear waste management facilities; creation of a new organization, independent of the doe, dedicated solely to assuring the safe storage and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste; providing access to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund for the purpose of nuclear waste storage and disposal; and initiating prompt efforts to develop geologic disposal facilities, consolidated interim storage facilities and transportation to those facilities. in january 2013, the doe issued a strategy document for implementing the brc recommendations. the strategy document outlines, among other things, long-term plans for a new management organization to handle spent fuel storage and disposal activities, development of new interim storage facilities and several possible funding reforms, including accessing the nuclear waste fund for funding these activities. each of these steps will require new federal legislation. nuclear regulatory developments. based on the nrc's comprehensive review of processes and regulations relating to nuclear facilities in the u.s. following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan, the nrc established, among other things, actions to be completed at each nuclear site and issued various orders and requests for information with a prescribed timeline for implementation and completion by the end of 2016. the nrc continues to revise orders for, among other things, enhanced venting capabilities for boiling water reactors for which implementation is expected to go beyond 2016 (fpl's nuclear units do not use boiling water reactors; see neer - generation and other operations - nuclear facilities - nuclear regulatory developments). fpl is currently working with the nrc on the approval and implementation of actions required to meet new nrc requirements. a portion of the costs for these actions is being recovered through base rates based on estimated costs for 2013, with any incremental costs being recovered through the capacity clause, all of which are included in estimated capital expenditures. in january 2014, the state of florida office of public counsel (opc) filed a notice of appeal to the florida supreme court of the fpsc's final order regarding the recovery of the incremental costs through the capacity clause. in february 2014, the florida supreme court granted the opc's request to stay that appeal until it has ruled on the opc's appeal of the fpsc's final order regarding the 2012 rate agreement. see fpl regulation - fpl rate regulation - cost recovery clauses below and note 13 - commitments. the lessons learned from the events in japan and the results of the nrc's actions have and will continue to, among other things, result in new licensing and safety-related requirements for u.s. nuclear facilities. any new requirements could, among other things, impact future licensing and operations of u.s. nuclear facilities, including fpl's existing nuclear facilities and nrc approval of two 10 table of contents additional nuclear units at fpl's turkey point site, and could, among other things, result in increased cost and capital expenditures associated with the operation and maintenance of fpl's nuclear units. solar operations solar generation can be provided primarily through two conventions: utility-owned and customer-owned or leased. in utility-owned solar generation, the energy generated goes directly to the transmission grid, whereas customer-owned or leased solar generation generally goes directly to the location it is serving with any excess over local need being fed back to the transmission grid. there are two principal solar technologies used for utility-scale projects: pv and thermal. at december 31, 2013, fpl owned and operated two pv solar generating facilities, which provided a total of 35 mw of generation capacity, and a 75 mw solar thermal hybrid facility. fpl supports the advancement of solar generation primarily for its fuel diversity and emissions reduction benefits, and plans to continue to support, study and pursue solar generation that is beneficial for fpl's customers. purchased power in addition to owning generation facilities, fpl also purchases electricity from non-utility generators and other utilities to meet customer demand through long- and short-term purchased power agreements. as of december 31, 2013, fpl's long-term purchased power agreements provided for the purchase of approximately 1,963 mw of power with expiration dates ranging from 2015 through 2032. see note 13 - contracts. fpl also procures short-term capacity for both economic and reliability purposes. fpl energy marketing and trading fpl's energy marketing &amp; trading division (emt) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see fpl regulation - fpl rate regulation below, management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 3. fpl regulation fpl's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following: the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things; the ferc, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of generation, transmission and other facilities, transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce, proposals to build interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things; the nerc, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the ferc, to ensure the reliability of the u.s. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts; the nrc, which has jurisdiction over the operation of nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders; and the epa, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws. the epa also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts. fpl rate regulation the fpsc sets rates at a level that is intended to allow fpl the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to fpl's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. base rates . in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the fpsc's determination of fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that any regulatory roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings. proceedings can occur at the initiative of fpl or upon action by the fpsc. base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the fpsc. 11 table of contents rates effective january 2013 - december 2016 - in january 2013, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement). key elements of the 2012 rate agreement, which is effective from january 2013 through december 2016, include, among other things, the following: new retail base rates and charges were established in january 2013 resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of $350 million on an annualized basis. fpl's allowed regulatory roe is 10.50%, with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points. if fpl's earned regulatory roe falls below 9.50%, fpl may seek retail base rate relief. if the earned regulatory roe rises above 11.50%, any party to the 2012 rate agreement other than fpl may seek a review of fpl's retail base rates. retail base rates will be increased by the annualized base revenue requirements for fpl's three modernization projects (cape canaveral, riviera beach and port everglades) as each of the modernized power plants becomes operational. (cape canaveral became operational in april 2013 and riviera beach and port everglades are expected to be operational in the second quarter of 2014 and by mid-2016, respectively.) cost recovery of wcec unit no. 3, which was placed in service in may 2011, will continue to occur through the capacity clause; however, such recovery will not be limited to the projected annual fuel cost savings as was the case in the previous rate agreement discussed below. subject to certain conditions, fpl may amortize, over the term of the 2012 rate agreement, a depreciation reserve surplus remaining at the end of 2012 under the 2010 rate agreement discussed below (approximately $224 million) and may amortize a portion of fpl's fossil dismantlement reserve up to a maximum of $176 million (collectively, the reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, fpl must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.50% earned regulatory roe but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory roe in excess of 11.50%. future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. if storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, fpl may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover the amount above $800 million. an incentive mechanism whereby customers will receive 100% of certain gains, including, but not limited to, gains from the purchase and sale of electricity and natural gas (including transportation and storage), up to a specified threshold; gains exceeding that specified threshold will be shared by fpl and its customers. in september 2013, the florida supreme court heard oral argument on the opc's appeal of the fpsc's final order regarding the 2012 rate agreement. a ruling by the florida supreme court is pending. rates effective march 2010 - december 2012 - effective march 1, 2010, pursuant to an fpsc final order (2010 fpsc rate order), new retail base rates for fpl were established, resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of approximately $75 million on an annualized basis. the 2010 fpsc rate order, among other things, also established a regulatory roe of 10.0% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points. in february 2011, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement agreement between fpl and principal parties in fpl's 2009 rate case (2010 rate agreement). the 2010 rate agreement, which was effective through december 31, 2012, provided for, among other things, a reduction in depreciation expense (surplus depreciation credit) in any calendar year up to a cap in 2010 of $267 million, a cap in subsequent years of $267 million plus the amount of any unused portion from prior years, and a total cap of $776 million over the course of the 2010 rate agreement, provided that in any year of the 2010 rate agreement fpl was required to use enough surplus depreciation credit to maintain an earned regulatory roe within the range of 9.0% - 11.0%. the 2010 rate agreement also permitted incremental cost recovery through fpl's capacity clause for wcec unit no. 3 up to the amount of the projected annual fuel savings for customers. see cost recovery clauses below for additional information regarding the capacity clause. cost recovery clauses . cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange costs, certain construction-related costs and conservation and certain environmental-related costs. cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class. these cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. fuel costs are recovered from customers through the fuel clause, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses in terms of operating revenues. fpl uses a risk management fuel procurement program which has been approved by the fpsc. the fpsc reviews the program activities and results for prudence annually as part of its review of fuel costs. the program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of fpl's fuel requirements. see fpl energy marketing and trading above, note 1 - regulation and note 3. capacity payments to other utilities and non-utility generators for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause. in accordance with the fpsc's nuclear cost recovery rule, fpl also recovers pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax afudc rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity clause. as property related to the new nuclear capacity goes into service, construction costs and a return on investment are recovered through base 12 table of contents rate increases effective beginning the following january. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations above. in january 2014, fpl began recovering, through the capacity clause, the incremental costs incurred to comply with new nrc requirements established following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations - nuclear regulatory developments above. in accordance with the 2012 and 2010 rate agreements, cost recovery for wcec unit no. 3 is permitted during the term of the agreements through fpl's capacity clause and is reported as retail base revenues. costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 and costs associated with fpl's three solar facilities are recovered through the environmental cost recovery clause (environmental clause). the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. these costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. ferc the federal power act gives the ferc exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce. pursuant to the federal power act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the ferc which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of ferc-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. the federal power act also gives the ferc authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to develop mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system. the ferc also approves and enforces reliability standards. see nerc below. electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the ferc. the ferc also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates. nerc the nerc has been certified by the ferc as the national electric reliability organization. the nerc's mandate is to ensure the reliability and security of the north american bulk-power system through establishment and enforcement of reliability standards. the nerc's regional entities establish requirements, approved by the ferc, for reliable operation and maintenance of power generation facilities and transmission systems. fpl is subject to these reliability requirements and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them. fpl environmental regulation fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by some of the emerging issues described in the nee environmental matters section below. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. as part of the conditions of certification by the fdep for the generation uprate project at the turkey point nuclear units, which was completed in 2013, fpl was required to implement a monitoring plan in and around the turkey point cooling canals due to concerns over potential saltwater intrusion beyond fpl's property. monitoring under the plan includes collection of data prior to and after the additional capacity is placed in service. data for the first three years has been collected and provided to the fdep and other agencies. the ultimate outcome of the monitoring plan is uncertain, and the financial and operational impacts on fpl, if any, cannot be determined at this time. fpl employees fpl had approximately 8,900 employees at december 31, 2013. approximately 33% of the employees are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2014. ii. neer neer was formed in 1998 to aggregate nee's competitive energy businesses. it is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of neech. through its subsidiaries, neer currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generating facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the u.s., as well as in canada and spain. see note 14. neer is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with approximately 18,303 mw of generating capacity across 24 states, 4 canadian provinces and 1 spanish province as of december 31, 2013. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. neer is the largest owner of wind and utility-scale solar energy projects in north america. since 2002, neer has more than doubled its generating capacity, primarily through the development of new wind projects and the acquisition of nuclear projects. 13 table of contents neer engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, to hedge the production from its generating assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements. these activities include providing full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offering customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers. neer also participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production through non-operating ownership interests and pipeline infrastructure development, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business, and owns a retail electricity provider. markets and competition electricity markets in the u.s. are regional and diverse in character. all are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. the nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region. generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, neer may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. neer's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities is also constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing. the degree and nature of competition that neer faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets. approximately 90% of neer's revenue is derived from wholesale markets. wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. neer primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of neer's generating assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages. wholesale power generation is a regional business that is highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. as such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies neer competes with depending on the market. in wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services. in general, u.s. electricity markets encompass three classes of product: energy, capacity and ancillary services. energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services related to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves. the exact nature of these classes of product is defined in part by regional tariffs. not all regions have a capacity product class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region. rtos and isos exist in a number of regions within which neer operates to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets. neer also has operations that fall within the western electricity coordinating council reliability region that are not under the jurisdiction of an established rto or iso. although each rto and iso may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. neer has operations that fall within the following rtos and isos: alberta electric system operator california independent system operator ercot independent electricity system operator (in ontario) iso new england (iso-ne) midcontinent independent system operator, inc. (miso) new york independent system operator (nyiso) pjm southwest power pool neer competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generating facilities, and, as of december 31, 2013, approximately 62% of neer's generating capacity is fully committed under long-term contracts. where long-term contracts are not in effect, neer sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. in such cases, neer will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically but not always of one to three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, may only protect a portion of the revenue that neer expects to derive from the associated generation facility and may not qualify for hedge accounting under gaap. contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under gaap are referred to as non-qualifying hedges for adjusted earnings purposes. see management's discussion - overview - adjusted earnings. certain facilities within the neer wind and solar generation portfolio produce recs and other environmental attributes which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts. for the wind and solar generation not sold under 14 table of contents long-term contracts, the recs and other environmental attributes may be sold separately. while the majority of neer's revenue is derived from the output of its generating facilities, neer is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and fuel products and services to a variety of customers. in the full requirements service, typically, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day, at a fixed price, for a predetermined period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements. the deregulated retail energy business is typically a highly competitive business. in general, competition in the retail energy business is on the basis of price, service, brand image, product offerings and market perceptions of creditworthiness. electricity is sold pursuant to a variety of product types, including fixed, indexed and renewable products, and customers elect terms of service typically ranging from one month to five years. retail energy rates are market-based, and not subject to traditional cost-of-service regulation by public service commissions. transmission and distribution service companies provide, on a non-discriminatory basis, the wires and metering services necessary to deliver service to customers. subsidiaries of neer compete in certain states for retail customers, which can be divided into two principal segments: residential and commercial and industrial (c&amp;i). residential customers largely require only energy services, which may be purchased on a month-to-month basis or under a multi-year contract. large c&amp;i customers share many of the same characteristics as wholesale utility customers and may require similarly customized and structured products. in general, competitive retail electric providers are exposed to both volume and price risk: customers' volumes will vary, and competitive retail providers are committed to supplying the customer's full needs at all times and are therefore responsible for purchases in wholesale markets to meet those needs; and wholesale prices will fluctuate in ways that do not necessarily match the retail prices committed to the customer. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for neer. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. neer seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities. generation and other operations the vast majority of neer's revenue is derived from selling the products (energy, capacity, recs and ancillary services) produced by its own generating facilities. however, neer may combine purchases of relevant products in wholesale markets with products produced by its own generating facilities in order to meet particular customers' needs. 15 table of contents at december 31, 2013, the locations of neer's generation facilities in north america are as follows: at december 31, 2013, neer managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its generation projects in which it has an ownership interest. neer categorizes its portfolio in a number of different ways for different business purposes. see a listing of neer's generating facilities in item 2 - generating facilities. the following presentation details neer operations, fuel/technology mix and generation by geographic region which nee commonly uses in communicating its business: contracted, merchant and other operations neer's portfolio of operations based on the presence/absence of long-term contracts and other operations is described below. contracted assets. contracted assets are projects with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their output and certain wind assets where long-term power contracts are expected to be executed. at december 31, 2013, neer had 11,562 mw of contracted assets, substantially all of which have long-term power contracts. essentially all of the output of these contracted assets were under power sales agreements, with a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 15 years, and some have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from march 2014 through 2022. see note 13 - contracts. approximately 8,366 mw of this capacity is wind generation and 1,621 mw of this capacity is nuclear generation. the remaining 1,575 mw use a variety of fuels and technologies such as natural gas, oil and solar. merchant assets. merchant assets are projects that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output, or, in the case of certain wind assets, are not expected to have long-term power contracts, and therefore require active marketing and hedging. at december 31, 2013, neer's portfolio of merchant assets consists of 6,741 mw of owned wind, nuclear, natural gas, oil and solar generating facilities, including 846 mw of peak generating facilities. approximately 60% (based on net mw capacity) of the natural gas-fueled merchant assets have natural gas transportation agreements to provide for fluctuating natural gas requirements. see note 13 - contracts. derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) are generally used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty, credit and operational risks. other operations. neer's operations also include the gas infrastructure business and the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses. at december 31, 2013, the gas infrastructure business had non-operating investments located in oil and gas shale formations primarily in texas, oklahoma, wyoming, north dakota and louisiana. also, see neer customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading below. 16 table of contents neer fuel/technology mix neer's generating output is produced using a variety of fuel sources as further described below. neer's power generation in terms of mwh produced for the year ended december 31, 2013 by fuel type is as follows: wind facilities at december 31, 2013, neer had ownership interests in wind generating facilities with a total generating capacity of 10,210 mw. neer operates all of these wind facilities, which are located in 19 states and 4 provinces in canada. during 2013, neer added approximately 250 mw of new u.s. wind generation and 124 mw of new canadian wind generation and sold wind facilities with generation capacity totaling 223 mw located in wyoming and california. neer is currently committed to add new wind generation in 2014 and 2015 totaling approximately 465 mw in canada and 1,175 mw in the u.s. see policy incentives for renewable energy projects below for additional discussion of neer's expectations regarding wind development and construction. natural gas facilities at december 31, 2013, neer had ownership interests in natural gas facilities with net generating capacity (neer's net ownership interest in facility capacity) of 3,991 mw. neer operates all of these facilities and approximately 1,003 mw of net generating capacity is from contracted natural gas assets located throughout the northeastern u.s. 17 table of contents nuclear facilities at december 31, 2013, neer owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,721 mw. facility location mw portfolio category operating license expiration dates seabrook new hampshire 1,100 merchant 2030 (a) duane arnold iowa 431 contracted (b) 2034 point beach unit no. 1 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) 2030 point beach unit no. 2 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) 2033 ______________________ (a) in 2010, neer filed an application with the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years, which license renewal is dependent on various nrc regulatory approvals and actions. (b) neer sells all of its share of the output of duane arnold under a long-term contract expiring in february 2025. (c) neer sells all of the output of point beach units nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through their current operating license expiration dates. neer's nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply of uranium and conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from march 2014 through 2022. see note 13 - contracts. neer is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly-owned units. nrc regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. nuclear unit scheduled refueling outages. neer's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. the following table summarizes each unit's next scheduled refueling outage: facility next scheduled refueling outage seabrook april 2014 duane arnold october 2014 point beach unit no. 1 october 2014 point beach unit no. 2 march 2014 spent nuclear fuel. neer's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. as owners and operators of nuclear facilities, certain subsidiaries of neer are subject to the nuclear waste policy act and are parties to the spent fuel settlement agreement and legal actions described in fpl - fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations. similar to fpl, these subsidiaries will continue to pay fees to the u.s. government's nuclear waste fund pending congressional approval of and implementation of a zero-fee proposal. nuclear regulatory developments. for discussion of developments regarding the impact of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan as it relates to u.s. nuclear facilities, see fpl - fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations. neer's nuclear facilities are subject to the same nrc actions as described for fpl. duane arnold is neer's only boiling water reactor unit. neer is currently working with the nrc on the approval and implementation of actions required to meet new nrc requirements, the costs of which are included in estimated capital expenditures. see note 13 - commitments. solar facilities at december 31, 2013, neer had ownership interests in solar facilities with a total net generating capacity of 477 mw in the u.s. and canada. during 2013, neer added 125 mw of capacity from a 250 mw solar thermal project in california (genesis solar project) and 155 mw of net capacity from a 550 mw solar pv project in california (desert sunlight solar project), in which neer has a 50% equity investment. the remaining capacity for the genesis solar project (125 mw) and the desert sunlight solar project (120 mw) are expected to be added during 2014. in addition, neer and its affiliates completed construction of solar thermal facilities with generating capacity of 99.8 mw in spain (spain solar projects) during 2013 (see note 13 - spain solar projects for additional developments that impact the spain solar projects). 18 table of contents other assets at december 31, 2013, neer had 804 mw of other generation assets, primarily oil facilities located in maine. during 2013, neer initiated a plan and received internal approval to pursue the sale of its ownership interests in the oil-fired generating plants located in maine with a total capacity of 796 mw. in the first quarter of 2013, a subsidiary of neer completed the sale of its ownership interest in a portfolio of hydropower generation plants and related assets with a total generating capacity of 351 mw located in maine and new hampshire. policy incentives for renewable energy projects in its development and operation of u.s. wind generation facilities, neer depends heavily on the federal ptc, which currently provides an income tax credit for the production of electricity from utility-scale wind turbines for the first ten years of commercial operation. this incentive was created under the energy policy act of 1992 and, under the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (taxpayer relief act), was extended for wind projects whose construction began before january 1, 2014. the internal revenue service (irs) has issued guidance related to which projects will qualify for the ptc including, among other things, criteria for the beginning of construction of a project and the continuous program of construction or the continuous efforts to advance the project to completion. pursuant to the irs guidance, neer expects its projects currently in development or under construction in the u.s. will qualify for the ptc. alternatively, wind project developers can choose to receive a 30% itc, in lieu of the ptc, with the same requirement that construction of the wind project began before january 1, 2014. neer's expectations for wind development and construction will depend, in part, on whether legislation is passed to further extend the ptc. solar project developers are also eligible to receive a 30% itc for new solar projects that achieve commercial operation before 2017. solar project developers can elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the u.s. department of treasury for the value of the 30% itc for qualifying solar projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects are placed in service before 2017. other countries, including canada and spain, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. the feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology. see note 13 - spain solar projects for developments in spain. neer generation by geographic region in north america neer's generating capacity spans various geographic regions in north america, thereby reducing overall volatility related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio basis. neer's generating facilities at december 31, 2013 are categorized by geographic region (see item 2 - generating facilities) in terms of mw of capacity as follows: 19 table of contents neer customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading pmi, a subsidiary of neer, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as electricity, natural gas and oil. pmi sells the output from neer's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures the fossil fuel for use by neer's generation fleet. its primary role is to manage the commodity risk of neer's portfolio. pmi uses derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of neer's power generation and gas infrastructure assets. pmi also provides a wide range of electricity and gas commodity products to customers and markets and trades energy commodity products. pmi's customer supply business includes providing full energy and capacity requirements and mid-market services that include sales and purchases of wholesale commodities-related products and the operations of a retail electricity provider. the results of pmi's activities are included in neer's operating results. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity, note 1 - energy trading and note 3. neer regulation the energy markets in which neer operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, as the case may be, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. at december 31, 2013, neer had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the u.s. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the public utility holding company act of 2005, which represent approximately 98% of neer's net generating capacity. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. neer's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, fossil fuels, solar and nuclear facilities. essentially all of the remaining 2% of neer's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under the purpa. neer's qualifying facilities generate electricity primarily from wind, solar and fossil fuels. qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the federal power act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. while projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. additionally, most of the neer facilities located in the u.s. are subject to ferc regulations and market rules, the nerc's mandatory reliability standards and the epa's environmental laws, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. see fpl - fpl regulation for additional discussion of ferc, nerc, nrc and epa regulations. with the exception of facilities located in ercot, the ferc has jurisdiction over various aspects of neer's business in the u.s., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas projects and major electricity policy initiatives. the puct has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over neer facilities located in ercot. neer and its affiliates are also subject to national and provincial or regional regulations in canada and spain related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. neer is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues related to renewable energy resources as described in the nee environmental matters section below. in order to better anticipate potential regulatory changes, neer continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. neer employees neer and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,500 employees at december 31, 2013. certain subsidiaries of neer have collective bargaining agreements with the ibew, the utility workers union of america, the security police and fire professionals of america and the international union of operating engineers, which collectively represent approximately 22% of neer's employees. the collective bargaining agreements have one- to five-year terms and expire between february 2015 and 2016. 20 table of contents iii. other nee operating subsidiaries corporate and other represents other business activities, primarily neet and fpl fibernet, that are not separately reportable. see note 14. in addition, certain subsidiaries of neech are pursuing approvals to build, own and operate an approximately 600-mile natural gas pipeline system to provide new natural gas transportation infrastructure in florida. neet neet, a wholly-owned subsidiary of neech, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. neet conducts its business primarily through two subsidiaries, lone star and nht, and is pursuing opportunities to develop, build and operate new transmission facilities throughout north america. in august 2013, an entity in which an affiliate of neet has a joint venture investment was selected to complete development work for a 250-mile transmission line in northwestern ontario, canada. once development is complete, subject to ontario energy board approval, the neet affiliate, through its joint venture, is expected to construct, own and operate the new transmission line that is projected to begin service in 2018. lone star lone star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in texas, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. lone star owns and operates approximately 330 miles of 345 kilovolt (kv) transmission lines and other associated facilities that were placed in service in 2012 and 2013. lone star is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the puct, the ercot, the nerc and the epa, as well as certain limited regulations of the ferc. see fpl - fpl regulation for further discussion of ferc, nerc and epa regulations and nee environmental matters. the puct has jurisdiction over a wide range of lone star's business activities, including, among others, rates charged to customers and certain aspects of the operation of transmission systems. the puct sets rates at a level that allows lone star the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to lone star's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. during late 2012 through mid-2013, the puct approved lone star's initial rate case proceeding as well as its interim rate adjustment filings for wholesale transmission service which ultimately provides for an annual revenue requirement of approximately $103 million for, among other things, $723 million of rate base, a regulatory equity ratio of 45%, an allowed regulatory roe of 9.6% and other operating expenses. lone star's subsequent capital investment will be recovered through either interim rate adjustment filings or a base rate filing. capital investment included in rates through the interim rate adjustment mechanism is subject to prudence review in lone star's next general rate case which is expected to be filed in mid-2014. nht nht, a rate-regulated transmission owner in iso-ne, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. nht owns transmission facilities which connect neer's seabrook nuclear facility to the new england transmission grid and interconnect three 345 kv transmission lines in new england. nht is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the new hampshire public utility commission, iso-ne, the ferc, the nerc and the epa. see fpl - fpl regulation and nee environmental matters for further discussion of ferc, nerc and epa regulations. nht wholesale transmission revenues are provided through an iso-ne tariff. fpl fibernet fpl fibernet conducts its business through two separate wholly-owned subsidiaries of neech. one subsidiary was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of nee's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support fpl operations and the other was formed in 2011 to hold fiber-optic network assets which were acquired. both subsidiaries are limited liability companies organized under the laws of delaware. fpl fibernet leases fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to fpl and other customers, primarily telephone, wireless, internet and other telecommunications companies. fpl fibernet's networks cover most of the metropolitan areas in florida and several in texas. fpl fibernet also has a long-haul network providing bandwidth at wholesale rates. the long-haul network connects major cities in florida and texas with additional connectivity to atlanta, georgia and the south central u.s., including arkansas, louisiana and oklahoma. at december 31, 2013, fpl fibernet's network consisted of approximately 8,760 route miles. fpl fibernet is subject to regulation by the federal communications commission which has jurisdiction over wire and wireless communication networks and by the public utility commissions in the states in which it provides intrastate telecommunication services. natural gas pipeline system in july 2013, fpl announced the winning proposals from its 2012 rfp for an approximately 600-mile natural gas pipeline system for new natural gas transportation infrastructure in florida. the proposed pipeline system will be composed of two pipelines, each of which is expected to be operational beginning in mid-2017. sabal trail, which is 33% owned by a neech subsidiary and will be a ferc-regulated entity, was selected to build, own and operate the northern pipeline that would originate in southwestern alabama and end at a new hub to be built in central florida (central florida hub). florida southeast connection, which is a wholly-owned neech subsidiary and will be a ferc-regulated entity, was selected to build, own and operate the southern pipeline that 21 table of contents would originate at the central florida hub and end in martin county, florida at fpl's martin power plant. total estimated capital expenditures for the 33% portion of the northern pipeline plus the entire southern pipeline are estimated to be approximately $1.5 billion. at december 31, 2013, nee's investment in the proposed pipeline system totaled approximately $33 million. the obligations of sabal trail and florida southeast connection to build and operate the northern pipeline and southern pipeline, respectively, are subject to certain conditions, including ferc approval. a ferc decision is expected in 2015. see fpl - fpl sources of generation - fossil operations and note 13 - commitments and contracts. nee environmental matters nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. the u.s. congress and certain states and regions continue to consider several legislative and regulatory proposals with respect to ghg emissions. the government of canada and its provinces are also taking certain actions, such as setting targets or goals, regarding the reduction of ghg emissions. the economic and operational impact of climate change legislation on nee and fpl depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the allowed emissions, whether emission allowances will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance. based on the most recent reference data available from government sources, nee is among the lowest emitters, among electric generators, of ghg in the u.s. measured by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of co 2 per mwh of generation. however, the legislative and regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on fpl's and neer's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to nee and fpl could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any specific implementation rules adopted. i. environmental regulations the following is a discussion of certain existing and emerging federal and state initiatives and rules, some of which could potentially have a material effect (either positive or negative) on nee and its subsidiaries. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. clean air interstate rule (cair)/cross-state air pollution rule (csapr). the epa's cair requires so 2 and nox emissions reductions from electric generating units in specified eastern states and the district of columbia, where the emissions from electric generating units are deemed to be transported to downwind states. neer and fpl began complying with the cair on january 1, 2009. in 2011, the epa issued the csapr, a final rule which was to replace the cair beginning in january 2012. the csapr would limit emissions of so 2 and nox from power plants in 28 eastern states and provides an allocation methodology for emission allowances and reduction limits for so 2 , nox and seasonal ozone requirements. in august 2012, the d.c. circuit vacated the csapr and remanded it back to the epa for further rulemaking, which decision was appealed to the u.s. supreme court by several parties, including the epa. the d.c. circuit ordered that the cair remain in place until such time that the epa promulgates a valid replacement, which the epa is expected to propose in late 2014. in june 2013, the u.s. supreme court issued an order granting the petitions for review of the d.c. circuit's decision to vacate the csapr and oral arguments were heard in december 2013. clean water act section 316(b). in march 2011, the epa issued a proposed rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act to address the location, design, construction and capacity of intake structures at existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems. the proposed rule is intended to require the best technology available to reduce the impact on aquatic organisms from once-through cooling water intake systems. under the proposed rule, potentially thirteen of fpl's facilities and five of neer's facilities may be required to add additional controls and/or make operational changes to comply, the economic and operational impact of which cannot be determined at this time, but could be material. the issuance of a final rule is expected in april 2014. regulation of ghg emissions. in september 2013, the epa re-proposed standards for new fossil fuel-fired power units pursuant to a presidential memorandum related to the regulation of ghg emissions. the presidential memorandum also directed the epa to issue a final rule for new fossil fuel-fired power units after considering all public comments and to propose a rule for existing fossil fuel-fired power units by june 2014 with a final rule by june 2015 and to prepare guidelines requiring each state to revise their state implementation plans, which will set forth the program requirements within that state, by the end of june 2016. in october 2013, the u.s. supreme court granted a request by several petitioners for review of the d.c. circuit's june 2012 decision which upheld the epa's ghg regulations. the u.s. supreme court granted review on the limited question of whether the epa permissibly determined that its regulation of ghg emissions from new motor vehicles triggered permitting requirements under the clean air act for stationary sources that emit ghg. the u.s. supreme court is scheduled to hear oral arguments on february 24, 2014. avian/bat regulations and wind turbine siting guidelines. fpl, neer and neet are subject to numerous environmental regulations and guidelines related to threatened and endangered species and their habitats, as well as avian and bat species, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. the facilities most significantly affected are wind and solar facilities and transmission and distribution lines. the environmental laws in the u.s., including, among others, the endangered 22 table of contents species act, the migratory bird treaty act, and the bald and golden eagle protection act and similar environmental laws in canada provide for the protection of migratory birds, eagles and endangered species of birds and bats and their habitats. regulations have been adopted under some of these laws that contain provisions that allow the owner/operator of a facility to apply for a permit to undertake specific activities including those associated with certain siting decisions, construction activities and operations. in addition to regulations, voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines established by the u.s. fish and wildlife service set forth siting, monitoring and coordination protocols that are designed to support wind development in the u.s. while also protecting both birds and bats and their habitats. these guidelines include provisions for specific monitoring and study conditions which need to be met in order for projects to be in adherence with these voluntary guidelines. complying with these environmental regulations and adhering to the provisions set forth in the voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines could result in additional costs or reduced revenues at existing and new wind and solar facilities and transmission and distribution facilities at fpl, neer and neet. ii. other ghg emissions reduction initiatives neer's plants operate in certain states and regions that continue to consider and implement regulatory proposals to reduce ghg emissions. rps, currently in place in approximately 30 states and the district of columbia, require electricity providers in the state or district to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources. these standards vary, but the majority include requirements to meet 10% to 25% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025. approximately 7 other states have set renewable energy goals as well. neer's plants operate in 20 states that have a rps or renewable energy goals and neer believes that these standards and goals will create incremental demand for renewable energy in the future. other ghg reduction initiatives including, among others, the regional greenhouse gas initiative and the california greenhouse gas regulation aim to reduce emissions through a variety of programs and under varying timelines. based on its clean generating portfolio, neer expects to continue experiencing a positive impact on earnings as a result of these ghg reduction initiatives. additionally, these initiatives provide neer opportunities with regards to wind and solar development as well as favorable energy pricing. website access to sec filings nee and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on nee's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information and materials available on nee's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined form 10-k. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. 23 table of contents executive officers of nee (a) name age position effective date miguel arechabala 53 executive vice president, power generation division of nee executive vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2014 deborah h. caplan 51 executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of nee executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of fpl april 15, 2013 paul i. cutler 54 treasurer of nee treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of nee february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 moray p. dewhurst 58 vice chairman and chief financial officer, and executive vice president - finance of nee executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl october 5, 2011 chris n. froggatt 56 vice president of nee controller and chief accounting officer of nee october 19, 2009 february 27, 2010 joseph t. kelliher 53 executive vice president, federal regulatory affairs of nee may 18, 2009 manoochehr k. nazar 59 executive vice president, nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of nee executive vice president, nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of fpl january 1, 2010 january 15, 2010 armando pimentel, jr. 51 president and chief executive officer of neer october 5, 2011 james l. robo 51 chairman of nee president and chief executive officer of nee chairman and chief executive officer of fpl december 13, 2013 july 1, 2012 may 2, 2012 charles e. sieving 41 executive vice president &amp; general counsel of nee executive vice president of fpl december 1, 2008 january 1, 2009 eric e. silagy 48 president of fpl december 16, 2011 william l. yeager 55 executive vice president, engineering, construction &amp; integrated supply chain of nee executive vice president, engineering, construction &amp; integrated supply chain of fpl january 1, 2013 ______________________ (a) information is as of february 21, 2014 . executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his/her present position for five years or more and his/her employment history is continuous. mr. arechabala was president of nextera energy espa a, s.l. from february 2010 to december 2013. from march 2007 to february 2010, mr. arechabala was vice president, thermal hydro plant operations &amp; management of neer. ms. caplan was vice president and chief operating officer of fpl from may 2011 to april 2013. from july 2005 to may 2011, ms. caplan was vice president, integrated supply chain of nee and fpl. mr. dewhurst has been vice chairman of nee since august 2009 and was chief of staff of nee from august 2009 to october 2011. mr. froggatt was the vice president and treasurer of pinnacle west capital corporation, a public utility holding company, and its major subsidiary, arizona public service company, a regulated electric utility, from december 2008 to october 2009. mr. nazar was the chief nuclear officer of nee from january 2009 to december 2009. from january 2009 to january 2010, mr. nazar was the senior vice president and chief nuclear officer of fpl. mr. pimentel was chief financial officer of nee and fpl from may 2008 to october 2011 and executive vice president, finance of nee and fpl from february 2008 to october 2011. mr. robo was president and chief operating officer of nee from december 2006 to june 2012. mr. sieving was also assistant secretary of nee from may 2010 to may 2011 and general counsel of fpl from january 2009 to may 2010. mr. silagy was senior vice president, regulatory and state governmental affairs of fpl from may 2010 to december 2011. mr. silagy was vice president and chief development officer of fpl from july 2008 to may 2010. mr. yeager was vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain services of nee and fpl from october 2012 to december 2012. mr. yeager was vice president, integrated supply chain of nee and fpl from may 2011 to october 2012. from january 2005 to may 2011, mr. yeager was vice president, engineering and construction of fpl. 24 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to nee's and fpl's business the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of nee and fpl. the following is a description of important risks that may adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl and may cause actual results of nee and fpl to differ substantially from those that nee or fpl currently expects or seeks. in that event, the market price for the securities of nee or fpl could decline. accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that nee and fpl file with the sec. the risks described below are not the only risks facing nee and fpl. additional risks and uncertainties may also materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. each of nee and fpl has disclosed the material risks known to it to affect its business at this time. however, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may in the future materially adversely affect the performance or financial condition of nee and fpl. regulatory, legislative and legal risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. the operations of nee and fpl are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. this extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, nee's and fpl's industries, businesses, rates and cost structures, operation of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, transmission and fuel transportation and storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. in their business planning and in the management of their operations, nee and fpl must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or an appropriate return on capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. fpl is a regulated entity subject to the jurisdiction of the fpsc over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers, issuance of securities, and aspects of the siting, construction and operation of its generating plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that fpl is permitted to earn on invested capital. the regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in florida and elsewhere, limits fpl's ability to increase earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or an appropriate return on capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. certain subsidiaries of neet, which are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of nee, are regulated electric transmission utilities subject to the jurisdiction of their regulators and subject to similar risks. regulatory decisions that are important to nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. the local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on fpsc decisions with negative consequences for fpl. these decisions may require, for example, fpl to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. certain subsidiaries of neet are subject to similar risks. fpl's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the fpsc. the fpsc engages in an annual prudence review of fpl's use of derivative instruments in its risk management fuel procurement program and should it find any such use to be imprudent, the fpsc could deny cost recovery for such use by fpl. such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives that support renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, 25 table of contents could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer depends heavily on government policies that support renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which neer operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. the federal government, a majority of the 50 u.s. states and portions of canada and spain provide incentives, such as tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, that support the sale of energy from renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. as a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their policies that support renewable energy and consider actions to make the policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives that support renewable energy, such as those reductions that have been enacted in spain and are applicable to neer's solar projects in that country, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations or interpretations or other regulatory initiatives. nee's and fpl's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, new or revised laws, regulations or interpretations or other regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and environmental regulation, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. changes in the nature of the regulation of nee's and fpl's business could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's results of operations. nee and fpl are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on nee and fpl, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. fpl has limited competition in the florida market for retail electricity customers. any changes in florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the florida retail electricity market could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be no assurance that fpl will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer is subject to ferc rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. nee cannot predict the impact of changing ferc rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond nee's control. there can be no assurance that neer will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any other changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if the rules implementing the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) broaden the scope of its provisions regarding the regulation of otc financial derivatives and make certain provisions applicable to nee and fpl. the dodd-frank act, enacted into law in july 2010, among other things, provides for substantially increased regulation of the otc derivatives market. while the legislation is broad and detailed, there are still portions of the legislation that either require implementing rules to be adopted by federal governmental agencies or otherwise require further interpretive guidance. nee and fpl continue to monitor the development of rules related to the dodd-frank act and are taking steps to comply with those rules that affect their businesses. while a number of rules have been finalized and are effective, the rules related to collateral requirements have yet to be finalized. if those rules, when finalized, require nee and fpl to post significant amounts of cash collateral with respect to swap transactions, nee's and fpl's liquidity could be materially adversely affected. nee and fpl cannot predict the impact these new rules will have on their ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks or on otc derivatives markets as a whole, but they could potentially have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities. 26 table of contents nee and fpl are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require nee and fpl to limit or eliminate certain operations. nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 , waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and rps, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new legislation, the current trend toward more stringent standards, and stricter and more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. for example, among other potential or pending changes, the use of hydraulic fracturing or similar technologies to drill for natural gas and related compounds used by nee's gas infrastructure business is currently being discussed for regulation at state and federal levels. violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose nee and fpl to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. proceedings could include, for example, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements such as air, water and soil quality standards. nee's and fpl's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co2 and methane, from electric generating units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. the potential effects of such greenhouse gas emission limits on nee's and fpl's electric generating units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. while nee's and fpl's electric generating units emit greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the u.s. electric generation sector, the results of operations of nee and fpl could be adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state legislation or regulators impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; make some of nee's and fpl's electric generating units uneconomical to operate in the long term; require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. there can be no assurance that nee or fpl would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. extensive federal regulation of the operations of nee and fpl exposes nee and fpl to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. nee and fpl are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on nee's and fpl's operations. additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. as an example, under the energy policy act of 2005, nee and fpl, as owners and operators of bulk-power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject nee and fpl to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if fpl or nee is found not to be in compliance with these standards, it may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in tax laws, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 27 table of contents nee's and fpl's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations, the financial condition and results of operations of nee and fpl, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. ultimate resolution of income tax matters may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could negatively affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings in which nee is involved or other future legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, class action lawsuits, may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. operational risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if nee and fpl do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. nee's and fpl's ability to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, native american and aboriginal groups, and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. if any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may otherwise be available, and nee and fpl could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write-off all or a portion of their investment in the project. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. nee and fpl own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generating and transmission facilities. a key component of nee's and fpl's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. as part of these operations, nee and fpl must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. should nee or fpl be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on nee or fpl, nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at higher prices. uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining nee's and fpl's facilities include, but are not limited to: risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; 28 table of contents failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and droughts; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires or other major events, of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines; availability of replacement equipment; risks of property damage or human injury from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires or other events; availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; inability to manage properly or mitigate known equipment defects in nee's and fpl's facilities; use of new or unproven technology; risks associated with dependence on a specific type of fuel or fuel source, such as commodity price risk, availability of adequate fuel supply and transportation, and lack of available alternative fuel sources; increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply and shifting demand; and insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities. customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of nee and fpl, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. a lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity may cause nee and fpl to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. in addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of fuel and water, and require nee and fpl to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. furthermore, nee's and fpl's physical plant could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to fpl, a change in sea level. fpl operates in the east and lower west coasts of florida, an area that historically has been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. a disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent nee and fpl from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. at fpl and other businesses of nee where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generating facilities, including, but not limited to, neer's wind and solar facilities. for example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generating facilities. because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, neer's results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and nee's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. to the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt nee's and fpl's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. nee's and fpl's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or be indirectly affected by, such activities. 29 table of contents terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other similar events affecting nee's and fpl's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which nee and fpl rely, could harm nee's and fpl's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power, by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generating facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. these events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), and reputational damage, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair nee's and fpl's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. nee's and fpl's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to nee and fpl. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. if insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, nee or fpl may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. nee and fpl generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. for example, fpl is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but would instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the fpsc, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. a loss for which nee or fpl is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if supply costs necessary to provide neer's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. the supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. neer may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, neer's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the commodity risks within its portfolios could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. nee's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures, based on factors both from within or wholly or partially outside of nee's control, may materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. sales of power on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis may cause nee's results of operations to be volatile. a portion of neer's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis. spot market sales are subject to market volatility, and the revenue generated from these sales is subject to fluctuation that may cause nee's results of operations to be volatile. neer and nee may not be able to manage volatility adequately, which could then have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of nee to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect nee's results of operations. nee is an active participant in energy markets. the liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in nee's ability to manage risks in these operations. over the past several years, other market participants have ceased or significantly reduced their activities in energy markets as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to, government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 30 table of contents nee's and fpl's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. nee and fpl have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. nee and fpl are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks, including, without limitation, employee misconduct. if such procedures and tools are not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, nee's and fpl's risk management tools associated with their hedging and trading procedures may not protect against significant losses. nee's and fpl's risk management tools and metrics associated with their hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, nee and fpl are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. such adverse effects could be material. if power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, fpl's and neer's ability to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. fpl and neer depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond fpl's and neer's control (such as severe weather or a generator or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt the ability of fpl and neer to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. nee and fpl are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with nee and fpl. if any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, nee and fpl may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. if a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, nee and fpl may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if nee or fpl is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. nee and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the otc markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for nee to engage in trading and marketing activities. any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. similarly, any requirement for fpl or nee to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite nee's and fpl's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. if nee's or fpl's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised and nee and fpl could be unable to fulfill critical business functions. nee's and fpl's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. due to the size, scope and geographical 31 table of contents reach of nee's and fpl's business, and due to the complexity of the process of power generation, transmission and distribution, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process information is critical and challenging. nee's and fpl's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, their control, such as operator error, severe weather or terrorist activities. any such failure or disabling event could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues and the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. nee and fpl also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. nee's and fpl's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in a material adverse impact to their reputation and/or the results of operations of the retail business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. if a significant breach occurred, the reputation of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. nee and fpl would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or nee and fpl could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in otc markets. nee and fpl execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the otc markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. transactions executed in otc markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. as a result, nee and fpl may not be able to execute desired otc transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity. from time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting nee and fpl. adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from nee's and fpl's business. addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of nee and fpl, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with their respective regulators. it may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. the direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in florida. fpl must negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of fpl's revenues. if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could 32 table of contents contribute to lower earnings and fpl may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. increasing costs associated with health care plans may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's results of operations. the costs of providing health care benefits to employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years. nee and fpl anticipate that their employee benefit costs, including, but not limited to, costs related to health care plans for employees and former employees, will continue to rise. the increasing costs and funding requirements associated with nee's and fpl's health care plans may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be negatively affected by the lack of a qualified workforce or the loss or retirement of key employees. nee and fpl may not be able to service customers, grow their business or generally meet their other business plan goals effectively and profitably if they do not attract and retain a qualified workforce. additionally, the loss or retirement of key executives and other employees may materially adversely affect service and productivity and contribute to higher training and safety costs. over the next several years, a significant portion of nee's and fpl's workforce, including, but not limited to, many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the nuclear generation facilities and electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire. such highly skilled individuals may not be able to be replaced quickly due to the technically complex work they perform. if a significant amount of such workers retire and are not replaced, the subsequent loss in productivity and increased recruiting and training costs could result in a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these consequences could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. nee is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry in general. in addition, nee may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. nuclear generation risks the construction, operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. nee and fpl maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in nee's and fpl's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. if nee or fpl is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of fpl, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. in the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, nee and fpl could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the price-anderson act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. in accordance with this act, nee maintains $375 million of private liability insurance per site, which is the maximum obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides up to $13.2 billion of liability insurance coverage per incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. under the secondary financial protection system, nee is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums of up to $1 billion ($509 million for fpl), plus any applicable taxes, per incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident, payable at a 33 table of contents rate not to exceed $152 million ($76 million for fpl) per incident per year. such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require nee and fpl to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities. the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a nuclear generation facility, or to take both of these actions, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. any of the foregoing events could require nee and fpl to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. any serious nuclear incident occurring at a nee or fpl plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. an incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the nrc to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, or on certain types of nuclear generation units, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. the inability to operate any of neer's or fpl's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the operating licenses for nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities extend through at least 2030. if the facilities cannot be operated for any reason through the life of those operating licenses, nee or fpl may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. various hazards posed to nuclear generation facilities, along with increased public attention to and awareness of such hazards, could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs which are difficult or impossible to predict and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the threat of terrorist activity, as well as recent international events implicating the safety of nuclear facilities, could result in more stringent or complex measures to keep facilities safe from a variety of hazards, including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis, as well as terrorist or other criminal threats. this increased focus on safety could result in higher compliance costs which, at present, cannot be assessed with any measure of certainty and which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. if planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, nee's and fpl's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. in addition, outages may be scheduled, often in connection with a refueling outage, to replace equipment, to increase the generation capacity at a particular nuclear unit, or for other purposes, and those planned activities increase the time the unit is not in operation. in the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. liquidity, capital requirements and common stock risks disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of nee and fpl. nee and fpl rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets, including, but not limited to, the conditions of the most recent financial crises in the u.s. and abroad, could increase nee's and fpl's cost of capital. if nee or fpl is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. although nee's competitive energy subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. the inability of nee's subsidiaries 34 table of contents to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific financing for electric-generating and other energy facilities on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by nee and/or neech in the future. the inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. such an occurrence also could result in nee expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. any of these actions could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for nee or its subsidiaries. nee's, neech's and fpl's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of nee and fpl to grow their business, and increase interest costs. the inability of nee, neech and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact nee's and fpl's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, and political, legislative and regulatory actions. there can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of nee, neech and fpl will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. nee's and fpl's liquidity may be impaired if their creditors are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. the inability of nee's, neech's and fpl's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require nee, neech or fpl, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity. poor market performance and other economic factors could affect nee's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and prospects. nee sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of nee and its subsidiaries. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. nee's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since, as interest rates decrease the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of nee's and fpl's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations. nee and fpl are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. certain of nee's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may materially adversely affect nee's liquidity, financial results and results of operations. nee holds other investments where changes in the fair value affect nee's financial results. in some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. this type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. a sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to nee. 35 table of contents nee is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. substantially all of nee's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. nee's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to nee. nee's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide nee with funds for its payment obligations. the subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can provide nee with funds. in addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, nee's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. the dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. the future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of nee's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if nee is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. nee guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than fpl, through guarantee agreements with neech. these guarantees may require nee to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when nee is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect nee's ability to meet its financial obligations or to pay dividends. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of nee's common stock. the market price and trading volume of nee's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of nee and its subsidiaries. as a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of nee's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity. 68 table of contentsrisk factors 25 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on nee's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause nee's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of nee and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and nee and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nextera energy, inc. (hereafter, nee), with approximately 44,900 mw of generating capacity, is one of the largest electric power companies in north america with electric generating facilities located in 27 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada, and employing approximately 13,800 people as of december 31, 2014 . nee provides retail and wholesale electric services to over 5 million customers and owns generation, transmission and distribution facilities to support its services. it also purchases electric power for resale to its customers and provides risk management services related to power and gas consumption related to its own generation assets and for a limited number of wholesale customers in selected markets. nee is the largest generator in north america of renewable energy from the wind and sun. nee owns and operates approximately 17% of the installed base of u.s. wind power production capacity and owns and/or operates approximately 11% of the installed base of u.s. utility-scale solar power production capacity as of december 31, 2014 . nee also owns and operates one of the largest fleets of nuclear power stations in the u.s., with eight reactors at five sites located in four states, representing approximately 6% of u.s. nuclear power electric generating capacity as of december 31, 2014 . nee's business strategy has emphasized the development, acquisition and operation of renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired generation facilities in response to long-term federal policy trends supportive of zero and low air emissions sources of power. nee's generation fleet has significantly lower rates of emissions of co 2 , so 2 and nox than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry with approximately 97% of its 2014 generation, measured by mwh produced, coming from renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired facilities. certain environmental attributes of the wholesale business' electric generating facilities, such as renewable energy credits (recs), emissions reductions, offsets, allowances and the avoided emission of ghg pollutants, have been or likely will be sold or transferred to third parties, who are solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes. nee was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida and conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, florida power &amp; light company (hereafter, fpl) and nextera energy resources, llc (hereafter, neer). nextera energy capital holdings, inc. (hereafter, neech), another wholly-owned subsidiary of nee, owns and provides funding for neer's and nee's operating subsidiaries, other than fpl and its subsidiaries. nee's two principal businesses also constitute nee's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. during 2014, nee formed nep to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows. see ii. neer for further discussion of nep. nee's and neer's generating capacity discussed in this combined form 10-k includes approximately 199 mw associated with noncontrolling interests related to nep as of december 31, 2014. see item 2. properties. fpl is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in florida. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. based on retail mwh sales. fpl is vertically integrated, with approximately 25,100 mw of generating capacity as of december 31, 2014 . fpl's investments in its infrastructure since 2001, such as modernizing less-efficient fossil generating plants to produce more energy with less fuel and fewer air emissions, increasing generating capacity at its existing nuclear units and upgrading its transmission and distribution systems to deliver service reliability that is the best of the florida investor-owned utilities, have provided significant benefits to fpl's customers, all while providing residential and commercial bills that were among the lowest in florida and below the national average based on a rate per kwh as of july 2014 (the latest date for which this data is available). with approximately 95% of its power generation coming from natural gas, nuclear and solar, fpl is also one of the cleanest electric utilities in the nation. based on 2014 information, fpl's emissions rates for co 2 , so 2 and nox were 38%, 95% and 73% lower, respectively, than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry. 4 table of contents neer, with approximately 19,800 mw of generating capacity at december 31, 2014 , is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with approximately 19,000 mw of generating capacity across 25 states, and with over 700 mw in 4 canadian provinces. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources, including wind and solar. neer also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities, participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production and pipeline infrastructure development and owns a retail electricity provider. neech's other business activities are primarily conducted through neet and fpl fibernet. neet conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, lone star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in texas, and nht, a rate-regulated transmission owner in new hampshire. fpl fibernet delivers wholesale and enterprise telecommunications services in florida, texas and certain areas of the south central u.s. in addition, certain subsidiaries of neech are pursuing approvals to move forward with three natural gas pipeline projects. nee seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors, as described in more detail in the following sections. nee's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both fpl and neer. management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities open to it; however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by fpl and neer is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise and recognizes that each business contributes to nee's credit profile in different ways. fpl and neer, as well as other nee subsidiaries, share common support functions with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses. during 2013, nee and its subsidiaries commenced an enterprise-wide initiative focused mainly on improving productivity and reducing o&amp;m expenses (cost savings initiative), and management expects to continue those efforts over the near term. in december 2014, nee and hawaiian electric industries, inc. (hei) announced a proposed merger pursuant to which hawaiian electric company, inc., hei's wholly-owned electric utility subsidiary, will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of nee. the companies are working to complete the merger by the end of 2015. however, completion of the merger and the actual closing date depend upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including approval by hei's shareholders and the receipt of required regulatory approvals. see note 1 - proposed merger for further discussion. 5 table of contents nee's operating subsidiaries i. fpl fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925 and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of nee. fpl is a rate-regulated electric utility and is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. based on retail mwh sales. fpl, with 25,092 mw of generating capacity at december 31, 2014 , supplies electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of florida, serving more than 9 million people through approximately 4.7 million customer accounts. at december 31, 2014 , fpl's service territory and plant locations are as follows (see item 2. properties - generating facilities): franchise agreements and competition fpl's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. alternatively, municipalities and counties may form their own utility companies to provide service to their residents. in a very few cases, an fpl franchise agreement provides the respective municipality the right to buy the electrical assets serving local residents at the end of the agreement. however, during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and fpl has the right to offer electric service to residents. fpl currently holds 177 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2044. one of these franchise agreements expires in 2015, three expire in 2016 and 173 expire during the period 2017 through 2044. these franchise agreements cover approximately 86% of fpl's retail customer base in florida. negotiations are ongoing to renew the franchise agreements that expire in 2015 and 2016. fpl considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. fpl also provides service to 12 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility. fpl relies upon florida law for access to public rights of way. because any customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, fpl effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. as a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since fpl's cost of service is substantially lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. changing technology, economic conditions and other factors could alter the favorable relative cost position that fpl currently enjoys; however, fpl seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of high reliability, low bills and excellent customer service. in addition to self-generation by residential, commercial and industrial customers, fpl also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources. in each of 2014, 2013 and 2012, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 5%, 3% and 3%, respectively, of fpl's total operating revenues. 6 table of contents the fpsc promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam and solar generating capacity of 75 mw or greater by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, including fpl, to issue an rfp except when the fpsc determines that an exception from the rfp process is in the public interest. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. in january 2015, fpl announced plans to issue an rfp during the first quarter of 2015 for a new natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit in okeechobee county, florida. new nuclear power plants are exempt from the rfp requirement. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations below. customers and revenue fpl's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within florida. fpl revenues from wholesale sales increased in 2014 primarily due to an increase in contracted load served under existing and new wholesale contracts. beginning in 2013, operating revenues include gains associated with an incentive mechanism allowed under the 2012 rate agreement (see fpl regulation - fpl rate regulation - base rates - rates effective january 2013 - december 2016); such gains are included in other in the chart below. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues and customer accounts by customer class were as follows: for both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that fpl may charge are approved by regulatory bodies, by the fpsc in the case of retail customers, and by the ferc in the case of wholesale customers. in general, under u.s. and florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. since the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed, there can be no guarantee that fpl will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates. see fpl regulation below. 7 table of contents fpl seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low cost position. the ideas generated from the cost savings initiative discussed above are expected to keep fpl's o&amp;m expenses recovered through base rates flat through 2016 as compared to 2012. a common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the price of 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer. fpl's 2014 average bill for 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was the lowest among reporting electric utilities within florida as indicated below: power delivery fpl provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers. fpl also maintains interconnection facilities with neighboring utilities and non-utility generators inside its service territory, enabling it to buy and sell wholesale electricity and to enhance the reliability of its own network and support the reliability of neighboring networks. fpl's transmission system carries high voltage electricity from its generating facilities to substations where the electricity is stepped down to lower voltage levels and is sent through the distribution system to its customers. a key element of fpl's strategy is to provide highly reliable service to its customers. the transmission and distribution system is susceptible to interruptions or outages from a wide variety of sources including weather, animal and vegetation interference, traffic accidents, equipment failure and many others, and fpl seeks to reduce or eliminate outages where economically practical and to restore service rapidly when outages occur. a common industry benchmark for transmission and distribution system reliability is the system average interruption duration index (saidi), which represents the number of minutes the average customer is without power during a time period. for the five years 2009 - 2013, fpl's average annual saidi was the best of the investor-owned utilities in florida. fpl is accelerating its existing storm hardening and reliability program, to continue strengthening its infrastructure against tropical storms and hurricanes. also, as part of its commitment to building a smarter, more reliable and efficient electric infrastructure, fpl has installed 4.8 million smart meters and 11,500 intelligent devices throughout the electric grid. fpl system capability and load at december 31, 2014 , fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 27,055 mw, of which 25,092 mw were from fpl-owned facilities (see item 2. properties - generating facilities) and 1,963 mw were available through purchased power agreements (see fpl sources of generation - purchased power below). fpl customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. the highest peak load fpl has served to date was 24,346 mw, which occurred on january 11, 2010. fpl had adequate resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand. fpl's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2015 is approximately 27%. this reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of available output from fpl's active generating units, purchased power agreements and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of demand side management programs, including load management which was estimated at december 31, 2014 to be capable of reducing demand by approximately 1,800 mw, and energy efficiency and conservation programs. see fpl sources of generation - fossil operations and - nuclear operations below regarding generation projects currently under construction. 8 table of contents fpl sources of generation fpl relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generating facilities, along with purchased power, in order to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix by responding to market and industry developments. see descriptions of fossil, nuclear and solar operations below and a listing of fpl's generating facilities in item 2. properties - generating facilities. fpl's 2014 fuel mix based on mwh produced, including purchased power, was as follows: oil and solar are collectively less than 1% fossil operations (natural gas, coal and oil) at december 31, 2014 , fpl owned and operated 70 units that used fossil fuels, primarily natural gas, and had a joint ownership interest in 3 coal units. combined, the fossil fleet provided 21,604 mw of generating capacity for fpl. these fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity demand. a common industry benchmark for fossil unit reliability is the equivalent forced outage rate (efor), which represents a generating unit's inability to provide electricity when required to operate. for the five years 2009 - 2013, fpl's average annual efor was in the top decile among its electric utility fossil fleet peers in the u.s. fpl's natural gas plants require natural gas transportation, supply and storage. fpl has firm transportation contracts in place for existing pipeline capacity with five different transportation suppliers. these agreements provide for an aggregate maximum delivery quantity of 2,069,000 mmbtu/day with expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2036 that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of the currently anticipated needs for natural gas transportation through 2016. to the extent desirable, fpl also purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from these natural gas transportation suppliers based on pipeline availability. fpl has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. fpl has an agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2017. see note 13 - contracts. in 2013, the fpsc approved fpl's 25-year natural gas transportation agreements with each of sabal trail and florida southeast connection for a quantity of 400,000 mmbtu/day beginning on may 1, 2017 and increasing to 600,000 mmbtu/day on may 1, 2020. fpl's firm commitments under the agreements are contingent upon the occurrence of certain events, including ferc approval and completion of construction of the pipeline system to be built by sabal trail and florida southeast connection. a ferc decision is expected in 2015. see other nee operating subsidiaries - natural gas pipeline systems - florida natural gas pipeline system below and note 13 - contracts. these new agreements, when combined with fpl's existing agreements, are expected to satisfy substantially all of fpl's natural gas transportation needs through at least 2020. in december 2014, the fpsc approved fpl's petition to invest in long-term natural gas supplies in the woodford shale region in southeastern oklahoma and for the recovery of costs associated with the investment through the fuel clause. a wholly-owned subsidiary of fpl will partner with a third party to develop up to 38 natural gas production wells in the woodford shale region and receive its ownership share of the natural gas produced from these wells. fpl's projected investment in these natural gas production 9 table of contents wells as of december 31, 2014 is included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in note 13 - commitments. in 2015, the state of florida office of public counsel (opc) and florida industrial power users group each has filed notices of appeal to the florida supreme court that relate to challenging the woodford shale natural gas reserves project, which appeals are pending. as part of fpl's petition to invest in natural gas supplies in the woodford shale region, it also requested the fpsc approve a set of guidelines proposed by fpl under which fpl could participate in additional natural gas production projects and recover its costs through the fuel clause without prior fpsc approval. in 2015, the fpsc filed a motion with the florida supreme court requesting that the court issue an order confirming the fpsc has jurisdiction to consider and issue a decision on fpl's proposed guidelines while the appeals regarding the woodford shale natural gas reserves project are pending. also in 2015, the opc filed a petition requesting the florida supreme court prohibit the fpsc from ruling on the proposed guidelines while appeals concerning the woodford shale natural gas reserves project are pending. st. johns river power park (sjrpp) units nos. 1 and 2, coal-fired units in which fpl has a joint ownership interest, have firm coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of their fuel and transportation needs through 2017. scherer unit no. 4, the other coal-fired unit in which fpl has a joint ownership interest, has firm coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of its fuel needs and all of its transportation needs through 2016. any of the remaining fuel requirements for these coal-fired units will be obtained in the spot market. see note 13 - contracts. with respect to its oil plants, fpl obtains its fuel requirements in the spot market. modernization projects. in april 2013 and in april 2014, fpl placed in service, at each of its cape canaveral and riviera beach power plants, a natural gas-fired combined-cycle modernized unit with generating capacity of 1,210 mw and 1,212 mw, respectively. fpl is in the process of modernizing its port everglades power plant to a high-efficiency natural gas-fired unit that is expected to provide approximately 1,240 mw of capacity and be placed in service by mid-2016. nuclear operations at december 31, 2014 , fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 3,453 mw. facility mw operating license expiration dates st. lucie unit no. 1 981 2036 st. lucie unit no. 2 840 2043 turkey point unit no. 3 811 2032 turkey point unit no. 4 821 2033 fpl has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from late february 2015 through 2030. see note 13 - commitments. nrc regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the applicable operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 commencing in 2043. projects to add additional capacity. fpl's need petition for two additional nuclear units at its turkey point site was approved by the fpsc in 2008 and fpl is moving forward with activities necessary to obtain all permits, licenses and approvals necessary for construction and operation of the units. the two units are expected to add a total of approximately 2,200 mw of capacity. the timing of commercial operation will be subject to various regulatory approvals from the fpsc and other agencies which will be required throughout the licensing and development processes and the nuclear units are expected to be placed in-service in 2027 and 2028. the nrc has indicated that its consideration of the licenses for the two units will be complete by early 2017. nuclear unit scheduled refueling outages. fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. the following table summarizes each unit's next scheduled refueling outage: facility next scheduled refueling outage st. lucie unit no. 1 march 2015 st. lucie unit no. 2 september 2015 turkey point unit no. 3 october 2015 turkey point unit no. 4 march 2016 10 table of contents spent nuclear fuel. fpl's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. in august 2014, the nrc issued its continued storage of spent nuclear fuel rule which supports the nrc's determination that licensees can safely store spent nuclear fuel at nuclear power plants indefinitely. petitions have been filed with the nrc and the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit (d.c. circuit) challenging the rule and requesting that the nrc suspend final reactor licensing decisions in all open nrc licensing proceedings (including the licensing proceeding for two additional nuclear units at fpl's turkey point site) alleging that the rule is deficient. the petitions filed with the nrc have been fully briefed and a decision by the nrc is pending. the nrc requested that the d.c. circuit defer briefing on the appellate case until the nrc decides the petitions pending before it. nuclear waste policy act of 1982, as amended (nuclear waste policy act) - under the nuclear waste policy act, the doe is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. as required by the nuclear waste policy act, fpl is a party to contracts with the doe to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its nuclear units. the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants which fee was subsequently set to zero effective may 2014. the doe did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the nuclear waste policy act. in 2009, fpl and certain of fpl's nuclear plant joint owners entered into a settlement agreement (spent fuel settlement agreement) with the u.s. government agreeing to dismiss with prejudice lawsuits filed against the u.s. government seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from fpl's nuclear plants. the spent fuel settlement agreement permits fpl to make annual filings to recover certain spent fuel storage costs incurred by fpl which are reimbursable by the u.s. government on an annual basis. yucca mountain - in 2010, the doe filed a motion with the nrc to withdraw its license application for a nuclear waste repository at yucca mountain, which request was denied. in 2011, the nrc issued an order suspending the yucca mountain licensing proceeding, which order was challenged, and in 2013, the d.c. circuit issued an order requiring the nrc to proceed with the legally mandated licensing process for a nuclear waste repository at yucca mountain. as a result, the nrc has recently completed the technical review of the application and is planning to supplement the doe's environmental impact statement. certain requirements must be met before the nrc can issue a license for the repository. nuclear regulatory developments. based on the nrc's comprehensive review of processes and regulations relating to nuclear facilities in the u.s. following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan, the nrc established, among other things, actions to be completed at each nuclear site and issued various orders and requests for information with a prescribed timeline for implementation and completion by the end of 2016. the nrc continues to monitor industry implementation of the orders for, among others, enhanced venting capabilities for boiling water reactors for which implementation is expected to go beyond 2016 (fpl's nuclear units do not use boiling water reactors; see neer - generation and other operations - nuclear facilities - nuclear regulatory developments). fpl is currently working with the nrc on the approval and implementation of actions required to meet new nrc requirements. a portion of the costs for these actions is being recovered through base rates based on estimated costs for 2013, with any incremental costs being recovered through the capacity clause, all of which are included in estimated capital expenditures. see fpl regulation - fpl rate regulation - cost recovery clauses below and note 13 - commitments. the lessons learned from the events in japan and the results of the nrc's actions have and will continue to, among other things, result in new licensing and safety-related requirements for u.s. nuclear facilities. any new requirements could, among other things, impact future licensing and operations of u.s. nuclear facilities, including fpl's existing nuclear facilities and nrc approval of two additional nuclear units at fpl's turkey point site, and could, among other things, result in increased cost and capital expenditures associated with the operation and maintenance of fpl's nuclear units. solar operations solar generation can be provided primarily through two conventions: utility-owned and customer-owned or leased. in utility-owned solar generation, the energy generated goes directly to the transmission grid, whereas customer-owned or leased solar generation generally goes directly to the location it is serving with any excess over that local need being fed back to the transmission grid. there are two principal solar technologies used for utility-scale projects: pv and thermal. at december 31, 2014 , fpl owned and operated two solar pv generating facilities, which provided a total of 35 mw of generation capacity, and a 75 mw solar thermal hybrid facility. fpl supports the advancement of solar generation primarily for its fuel diversity and emissions reduction benefits, and plans to continue to support, study and pursue solar generation that is beneficial for fpl's customers. fpl plans to build three solar pv projects that are expected to provide approximately 74 mw each and be placed into service by the end of 2016. purchased power in addition to owning generation facilities, fpl also purchases power and capacity from non-utility generators and other utilities to meet customer demand through long-term purchased power agreements. as of december 31, 2014 , fpl's long-term purchased power agreements provided for the purchase of approximately 1,963 mw of power with expiration dates ranging from december 11 table of contents 2015 through 2032. see note 13 - contracts. on occasion, fpl may procure short-term power and capacity for both economic and reliability purposes. fpl energy marketing and trading fpl's energy marketing &amp; trading division (emt) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see fpl regulation - fpl rate regulation below, management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 3. fpl regulation fpl's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following: the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things; the ferc, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of generation, transmission and other facilities, transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce, proposals to build interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things; the nerc, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the ferc, to ensure the reliability of the u.s. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts; the nrc, which has jurisdiction over the operation of nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders; and the epa, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws. the epa also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts. fpl rate regulation the fpsc sets rates at a level that is intended to allow fpl the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to fpl's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. base rates . in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the fpsc's determination of fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that any regulatory roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings. proceedings can occur at the initiative of fpl or upon action by the fpsc. base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the fpsc. rates effective january 2013 - december 2016 - in january 2013, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement). key elements of the 2012 rate agreement, which is effective from january 2013 through december 2016, include, among other things, the following: new retail base rates and charges were established in january 2013 resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of $350 million on an annualized basis. fpl's allowed regulatory roe is 10.50%, with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points. if fpl's earned regulatory roe falls below 9.50%, fpl may seek retail base rate relief. if the earned regulatory roe rises above 11.50%, any party to the 2012 rate agreement other than fpl may seek a review of fpl's retail base rates. retail base rates will be increased by the annualized base revenue requirements for fpl's three modernization projects (cape canaveral, riviera beach and port everglades) as each of the modernized power plants becomes operational. (cape canaveral and riviera beach became operational in april 2013 and april 2014, respectively, and port everglades is expected to be operational by mid-2016.) cost recovery of wcec unit no. 3, which was placed in service in may 2011, will continue to occur through the capacity clause; however, such recovery will not be limited to the projected annual fuel cost savings as was the case in the previous rate agreement discussed below. 12 table of contents subject to certain conditions, fpl may amortize, over the term of the 2012 rate agreement, a depreciation reserve surplus remaining at the end of 2012 under the 2010 rate agreement discussed below (approximately $224 million) and may amortize a portion of fpl's fossil dismantlement reserve up to a maximum of $176 million (collectively, the reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, fpl must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.50% earned regulatory roe but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory roe in excess of 11.50%. future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. if storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, fpl may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover the amount above $800 million. an incentive mechanism whereby customers will receive 100% of certain gains, including, but not limited to, gains from the purchase and sale of electricity and natural gas (including transportation and storage), up to a specified threshold; gains exceeding that specified threshold will be shared by fpl and its customers. rates effective march 2010 - december 2012 - effective march 1, 2010, pursuant to an fpsc final order (2010 fpsc rate order), new retail base rates for fpl were established, resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of approximately $75 million on an annualized basis. the 2010 fpsc rate order, among other things, also established a regulatory roe of 10.0% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points. in february 2011, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement agreement between fpl and principal parties in fpl's 2009 rate case (2010 rate agreement). the 2010 rate agreement, which was effective through december 31, 2012, provided for, among other things, a reduction in depreciation expense (surplus depreciation credit) in any calendar year up to a cap in 2010 of $267 million, a cap in subsequent years of $267 million plus the amount of any unused portion from prior years, and a total cap of $776 million over the course of the 2010 rate agreement, provided that in any year of the 2010 rate agreement fpl was required to use enough surplus depreciation credit to maintain an earned regulatory roe within the range of 9.0% - 11.0%. the 2010 rate agreement also permitted incremental cost recovery through fpl's capacity clause for wcec unit no. 3 up to the amount of the projected annual fuel savings for customers. see cost recovery clauses below for additional information regarding the capacity clause. cost recovery clauses . cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange costs, certain construction-related costs and conservation and certain environmental-related costs. cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class. these cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. fuel costs and energy charges under the purchased power agreements are recovered from customers through the fuel clause, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses in terms of operating revenues. fpl uses a risk management fuel procurement program which has been approved by the fpsc. the fpsc reviews the program activities and results for prudence annually as part of its review of fuel costs. the program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of fpl's fuel requirements. see fpl energy marketing and trading above, note 1 - regulation and note 3. costs associated with fpl's investment in long-term natural gas supplies in the woodford shale region that have been approved by the fpsc will also be recovered through the fuel clause. see fpl sources of generation - fossil operations above. capacity payments to non-utility generators and other utilities are recovered from customers through the capacity clause. in accordance with the fpsc's nuclear cost recovery rule, fpl also recovers pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax afudc rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity clause. as property related to the new nuclear capacity goes into service, construction costs and a return on investment are recovered through base rate increases effective beginning the following january. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations above. in january 2014, fpl began recovering, through the capacity clause, the incremental costs incurred to comply with new nrc requirements established following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations - nuclear regulatory developments above. in accordance with the 2012 and 2010 rate agreements, cost recovery for wcec unit no. 3 is permitted during the term of the agreements through fpl's capacity clause and is reported as retail base revenues. costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 and costs associated with fpl's three solar facilities are recovered through the environmental cost recovery clause (environmental clause). the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. these costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. ferc the federal power act gives the ferc exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission 13 table of contents of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce. pursuant to the federal power act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the ferc which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of ferc-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. the federal power act also gives the ferc authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to establish and independently enforce mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system. see nerc below. electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the ferc. the ferc also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates. nerc the nerc has been certified by the ferc as the national electric reliability organization. the nerc's mandate is to ensure the reliability and security of the north american bulk-power system through the establishment and enforcement of reliability standards approved by ferc. the nerc's regional entities also enforce reliability standards approved by the ferc. fpl is subject to these reliability standards and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them. fpl environmental regulation fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by some of the emerging issues described in the nee environmental matters section below. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. fpl employees fpl had approximately 8,700 employees at december 31, 2014 . approximately 33% of the employees are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2017. ii. neer neer was formed in 1998 to aggregate nee's competitive energy businesses. it is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of neech. through its subsidiaries, neer currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generating facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the u.s., as well as in canada and spain. see note 14. neer is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with approximately 19,777 mw of generating capacity across 25 states, 4 canadian provinces and 1 spanish province as of december 31, 2014 . neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. neer is the largest owner of wind and utility-scale solar energy projects in north america. neer engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, to hedge the production from its generating assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements. these activities primarily include power and gas commodities and their related products, as well as providing full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offering customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers. neer also participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production through non-operating ownership interests and in pipeline infrastructure development, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business, and owns a retail electricity provider. neer also hedges the expected output from its gas infrastructure production assets to protect against price movements. as discussed in the overview above, during 2014, nep was formed to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows through a limited partnership interest in nextera energy operating partners, lp (nep opco). on july 1, 2014, nep closed its ipo by issuing 18,687,500 common units representing limited partnership interests. through an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, nee retained 74,440,000 units of nep opco representing a 79.9% interest in nep's operating projects. additionally, nee owns a controlling general partnership interest in nep and consolidates nep for financial reporting purposes. see note 1 - nextera energy partners, lp. upon completion of the ipo, nep, through neer's contribution of energy projects to nep opco, owned a portfolio of ten wind and solar projects with generation capacity totaling approximately 990 mw. in addition, neer has given nep opco the right of first offer for certain of its assets (rofo assets) if neer should seek to sell the assets. these assets include contracted wind and solar projects, some of which are still under construction, with a combined capacity of 1,549 mw. in october 2014, nep entered into agreements to expand its portfolio through two project acquisitions from neer. the first acquisition, which closed in january 2015, is a 250 mw wind project that was not included in the rofo assets. the second acquisition is a 20 mw solar project included in the rofo assets, which is currently under construction and is expected to close in the first quarter of 2015. 14 table of contents markets and competition electricity markets in the u.s. and canada are regional and diverse in character. all are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. the nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region. generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, neer may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. neer's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities may also be constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing. the degree and nature of competition that neer faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets. approximately 90% of neer's revenue is derived from wholesale markets. wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. neer primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of neer's generating assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage reliable customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages. wholesale power generation is a regional business that is highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. as such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies neer competes with depending on the market. in wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services. in general, u.s. electricity markets encompass three classes of services: energy, capacity and ancillary services. energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services related to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves. the exact nature of these classes of services is defined in part by regional tariffs. not all regions have a capacity services class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region. rtos and isos exist in a number of regions within which neer operates to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets. neer also has operations that fall within the western electricity coordinating council reliability region that are not under the jurisdiction of an established rto or iso. although each rto and iso may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. neer has operations that fall within the following rtos and isos: alberta electric system operator california independent system operator ercot independent electricity system operator (in ontario) iso new england (iso-ne) midcontinent independent system operator, inc. new york independent system operator pjm southwest power pool neer competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generating facilities, and, as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 65% of neer's generating capacity is fully committed under long-term contracts. where long-term contracts are not in effect, neer sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. in such cases, neer will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically of less than three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, may only protect a portion of the revenue that neer expects to derive from the associated generation facility and may not qualify for hedge accounting under gaap. contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under gaap are referred to as non-qualifying hedges for adjusted earnings purposes. see management's discussion - overview - adjusted earnings. certain facilities within the neer wind and solar generation portfolio produce recs and other environmental attributes which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts. for the wind and solar generation not sold under long-term contracts, the recs and other environmental attributes may be sold separately. while the majority of neer's revenue is derived from the output of its generating facilities, neer is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and fuel products and services to a variety of customers. in the full requirements service, typically, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day, at a fixed price, for a predetermined period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements. 15 table of contents the deregulated retail energy business is typically a highly competitive business. in general, competition in the retail energy business is on the basis of price, service, brand image, product offerings and market perceptions of creditworthiness. electricity is sold pursuant to a variety of product types, including fixed, indexed and renewable products, and customers elect terms of service typically ranging from one month to five years. retail energy rates are market-based, and not subject to traditional cost-of-service regulation by public utility commissions. transmission and distribution service companies provide, on a non-discriminatory basis, the wires and metering services necessary to deliver service to customers. subsidiaries of neer compete in certain states for retail customers, which can be divided into two principal segments: residential and commercial and industrial (c&amp;i). residential customers largely require only energy services, which may be purchased on a month-to-month basis or under a multi-year contract. small commercial customers behave and contract similarly to residential customers for an energy-only product. large c&amp;i customers share many of the same characteristics as wholesale utility customers and may require similarly customized and structured products. in general, competitive retail electric providers are exposed to both volume and price risk: customers' volumes will vary, and competitive retail providers are committed to supplying the customer's full needs at all times and are therefore responsible for purchases in wholesale markets to meet those needs. wholesale prices will fluctuate in ways that do not necessarily match the retail prices committed to the customer. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for neer. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. neer seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities. generation and other operations neer sells products associated with its own generating facilities (energy, capacity, recs and ancillary services) in competitive markets in regions where those facilities are located. customer transactions may be supplied from neer generating facilities or from purchases in the wholesale markets, or from a combination thereof. at december 31, 2014 , the locations of neer's generation facilities in north america are as follows: at december 31, 2014 , neer managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its generation projects in which it has an ownership interest. 16 table of contents neer categorizes its portfolio in a number of different ways for different business purposes. see a listing of neer's generating facilities in item 2. properties - generating facilities. the following presentation details neer operations and fuel/technology mix, which nee commonly uses in communicating its business: contracted, merchant and other operations neer's portfolio of operations based on the presence/absence of long-term contracts and other operations is described below. contracted assets. contracted assets are projects with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their output and certain wind assets where long-term power contracts are expected to be executed. at december 31, 2014 , neer had 13,045 mw of contracted assets, substantially all of which have long-term power contracts. essentially all of the output of these contracted assets were under power sales agreements, with a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 15 years, and some have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from april 2015 through 2022. see note 13 - contracts. approximately 9,583 mw of this capacity is wind generation and 1,621 mw of this capacity is nuclear generation. the remaining 1,841 mw use a variety of fuels and technologies such as natural gas, oil and solar. merchant assets. merchant assets are projects that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output, or, in the case of certain wind assets, are not expected to have long-term power contracts, and therefore require active marketing and hedging. at december 31, 2014 , neer's portfolio of merchant assets consists of 6,732 mw of owned wind, nuclear, natural gas, oil and solar generating facilities, including 846 mw of peak generating facilities. approximately 60% (based on net mw capability) of the natural gas-fueled merchant assets have natural gas transportation agreements to provide for fluctuating natural gas requirements. see note 13 - contracts. derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) are generally used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty, credit and operational risks. other operations. neer's operations also include the gas infrastructure business and the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses. at december 31, 2014 , the gas infrastructure business had non-operating ownership interests in investments located in oil and gas shale formations primarily in the midwest and south regions of the u.s. neer continues to pursue in a selective way opportunities in the upstream (exploration and production) area when it believes the return potential is attractive and to gain insight into the natural gas industry. additionally, neer has identified a small portfolio of projects that may provide additional opportunities to enter into the midstream area, primarily through the transportation of natural gas. see other nee operating subsidiaries - natural gas pipeline systems for a discussion of recent natural gas pipeline activity. see neer customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading for a description of the customer supply and propriety power and gas trading businesses. neer fuel/technology mix neer's generating output is produced using a variety of fuel sources as further described below. 17 table of contents neer's power generation in terms of mwh produced for the year ended december 31, 2014 by fuel type is as follows: wind facilities at december 31, 2014 , neer had ownership interests in wind generating facilities with a total generating capacity of 11,427 mw. neer operates all of these wind facilities, which are located in 19 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada. during 2014, neer added approximately 1,024 mw of new u.s. wind generation and 340 mw of new canadian wind generation and sold or dismantled wind facilities with generation capacity totaling 147 mw. neer is currently planning to add new contracted wind generation in 2015 and 2016 totaling approximately 175 mw in canada and 980 mw in the u.s. see policy incentives for renewable energy projects below for additional discussion of neer's expectations regarding wind development and construction. natural gas facilities at december 31, 2014 , neer had ownership interests in and operated natural gas facilities with net generating capacity (including only neer's net ownership interest in facility capacity) of 3,991 mw. approximately 1,004 mw of this net generating capacity is from contracted natural gas assets located throughout the northeastern u.s. nuclear facilities at december 31, 2014 , neer owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,721 mw. facility location mw portfolio category operating license expiration dates seabrook new hampshire 1,100 merchant 2030 (a) duane arnold iowa 431 contracted (b) 2034 point beach unit no. 1 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) 2030 point beach unit no. 2 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) 2033 ______________________ (a) in 2010, neer filed an application with the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years, which license renewal is dependent on nrc regulatory approvals. (b) neer sells all of its share of the output of duane arnold under a long-term contract expiring in february 2025. (c) neer sells all of the output of point beach units nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through their current operating license expiration dates. neer's nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from late february 2015 through 2024. see note 13 - contracts. neer is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by 18 table of contents the joint owners for the jointly-owned units. nrc regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. nuclear unit scheduled refueling outages. neer's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. the following table summarizes each unit's next scheduled refueling outage: facility next scheduled refueling outage seabrook october 2015 duane arnold october 2016 point beach unit no. 1 march 2016 point beach unit no. 2 october 2015 spent nuclear fuel. neer's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. as owners and operators of nuclear facilities, certain subsidiaries of neer are subject to the nuclear waste policy act and are parties to the spent fuel settlement agreement described in fpl - fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations. nuclear regulatory developments. for discussion of developments regarding the impact of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan as it relates to u.s. nuclear facilities, see fpl - fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations - nuclear regulatory developments. neer's nuclear facilities are subject to the same nrc requirements as described for fpl. duane arnold is neer's only boiling water reactor unit. neer is currently working with the nrc on the approval and implementation of actions required to meet new nrc requirements, the costs of which are included in estimated capital expenditures. see note 13 - commitments. solar facilities at december 31, 2014 , neer had ownership interests in solar facilities with a total net generating capacity of approximately 742 mw which are located in 4 states in the u.s. and 1 province in canada. during 2014, neer completed the construction of a 20 mw solar pv project in nevada, a 250 mw solar thermal project in california and a 550 mw solar pv project in california, in which neer has a 50% equity investment. neer is currently planning to add new contracted solar generation in 2015 and 2016 totaling approximately 960 mw. in addition, neer and its affiliates own solar thermal facilities with generating capacity of 99.8 mw in spain (spain solar projects). see note 13 - spain solar projects for developments that impact the spain solar projects. other assets at december 31, 2014 , neer had 796 mw of oil-fired generating facilities located in maine. policy incentives for renewable energy projects u.s. federal, state and local governments have established various incentives to support the development of renewable energy projects. these incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, ptcs, itcs, cash grants, tax abatements and rps programs. wind and solar projects qualify for the u.s. federal modified accelerated cost recovery system depreciation schedule. this schedule allows a taxpayer to recognize the depreciation of tangible property on a five-year basis even though the useful life of such property is generally greater than five years. the ptc currently provides an income tax credit for the production of electricity from utility-scale wind turbines for the first ten years of commercial operation. this incentive was created under the energy policy act of 1992 and, under the tax increase prevention act of 2014, was extended for wind projects whose construction began before january 1, 2015. the internal revenue service (irs) previously issued guidance related to which projects will qualify for the ptc including, among other things, criteria for the beginning of construction of a project and the continuous program of construction or the continuous efforts to advance the project to completion. pursuant to the irs guidance, neer expects its projects currently in development or under construction in the u.s. will qualify for the ptc. alternatively, wind project developers can choose to receive a 30% itc, in lieu of the ptc, with the same requirement that construction of the wind project began before january 1, 2015. the irs has not updated its guidance for the change in law extending the requirement for a wind project to be under construction from 2013 to 2014. solar project developers are also eligible to receive a 30% itc for new solar projects that achieve commercial operation before 2017. solar project developers can elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the u.s. department of treasury for the value of the 30% itc (convertible itc) for qualifying solar projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects are placed in service before 2017. solar projects that achieve commercial operations after december 31, 2016 may qualify for an itc of 10% of eligible installed costs. 19 table of contents other countries, including canada and spain, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. the feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology. see note 13 - spain solar projects for developments in spain. neer customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading neer's customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses engage in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, provide commodities-related products to customers and include the operations of a retail electricity provider. pmi, a subsidiary of neer, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as electricity, natural gas and oil. pmi sells the output from neer's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures the fossil fuel for use by neer's generation fleet. one of its primary roles is to manage the commodity risk of neer's portfolio. pmi uses derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of neer's power generation and gas infrastructure assets. pmi also markets and trades energy-related commodity products and provides a wide range of electricity and gas commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to customers. pmi's customer supply business provides full energy and capacity requirements to customers. the results of the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading activities are included in neer's operating results. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity, note 1 - energy trading and note 3. neer regulation the energy markets in which neer operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, as the case may be, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. at december 31, 2014 , neer had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the u.s. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the public utility holding company act of 2005, which represent approximately 97% of neer's net generating capacity in the u.s. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. neer's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, fossil fuels, solar and nuclear facilities. essentially all of the remaining 3% of neer's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under the purpa. neer's qualifying facilities generate electricity primarily from wind, solar and fossil fuels. qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the federal power act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. while projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. additionally, most of the neer facilities located in the u.s. are subject to ferc regulations and market rules, the nerc's mandatory reliability standards and the epa's environmental laws, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. see fpl - fpl regulation for additional discussion of ferc, nerc, nrc and epa regulations. with the exception of facilities located in ercot, the ferc has jurisdiction over various aspects of neer's business in the u.s., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas projects and major electricity policy initiatives. the puct has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over neer facilities located in ercot. neer and its affiliates are also subject to federal and provincial or regional regulations in canada and spain related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. in canada, activities related to owning and operating wind and solar projects and participating in wholesale and retail energy markets are regulated at the provincial level. in ontario, for example, electricity generation facilities must be licensed by the ontario energy board and may also be required to complete registrations and maintain market participant status with the independent electricity system operator, in which case they must agree to be bound by and comply with the provisions of the market rules for the ontario electricity market as well as the mandatory reliability standards of the nerc. neer is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues related to renewable energy resources as described in the nee environmental matters section below. in order to better anticipate potential regulatory changes, neer continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. neer employees neer and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,700 employees at december 31, 2014 . certain subsidiaries of neer have collective bargaining agreements with the ibew, the utility workers union of america, the security police and fire professionals of america and the international union of operating engineers, which collectively represent approximately 20% of neer's employees. the collective bargaining agreements have one- to three-year terms and expire between late february 2015 and 2016. 20 table of contents iii. other nee operating subsidiaries corporate and other represents other business activities, primarily neet and fpl fibernet, that are not separately reportable. see note 14. in addition, certain subsidiaries of neech are pursuing approvals to invest in, build, own and operate an approximately 600-mile natural gas pipeline system to provide new natural gas transportation infrastructure in florida and an approximately 300-mile natural gas pipeline to connect the natural gas supply in the marcellus and utica shale regions with markets in the southeast region of the u.s. neet neet, a wholly-owned subsidiary of neech, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. neet conducts its business primarily through two subsidiaries, lone star and nht, and is pursuing opportunities to develop, build and operate new transmission facilities throughout north america. in 2013, an entity in which an affiliate of neet has a joint venture investment was selected to complete development work for a 250-mile transmission line in northwestern ontario, canada. once development is complete, subject to ontario energy board approval, the neet affiliate, through its joint venture, is expected to construct, own and operate the new transmission line that is projected to begin service in 2020. lone star lone star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in texas, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. lone star owns and operates approximately 330 miles of 345 kilovolt (kv) transmission lines and other associated facilities that were placed in service in 2012 and 2013. lone star is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the puct, the ercot, the nerc and the epa, as well as certain limited regulations of the ferc. see fpl - fpl regulation for further discussion of ferc, nerc and epa regulations and nee environmental matters. the puct has jurisdiction over a wide range of lone star's business activities, including, among others, rates charged to customers and certain aspects of the operation of transmission systems. the puct sets rates at a level that allows lone star the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to lone star's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. in september 2014, the puct approved a stipulation and settlement between lone star and all intervenors relating to lone star's base rate petition. the stipulation and settlement provides for an annual revenue requirement of approximately $102 million based on a $694 million rate base, a regulatory equity ratio of 45%, an allowed regulatory roe of 9.6% and certain operating expenses. nht nht, a rate-regulated transmission owner in iso-ne, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. nht owns transmission facilities which connect neer's seabrook nuclear facility to the new england transmission grid and interconnect three 345 kv transmission lines in new england. nht is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the new hampshire public utility commission, iso-ne, the ferc, the nerc and the epa. see fpl - fpl regulation for further discussion of ferc, nerc and epa regulations and nee environmental matters. nht wholesale transmission revenues are provided through an iso-ne tariff. fpl fibernet fpl fibernet conducts its business through two separate wholly-owned subsidiaries of neech. one subsidiary was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of nee's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support fpl operations and the other was formed in 2011 to hold fiber-optic network assets which were acquired. both subsidiaries are limited liability companies organized under the laws of delaware. fpl fibernet leases fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to fpl and other customers, primarily telephone, wireless, internet and other telecommunications companies. fpl fibernet's networks cover most of the metropolitan areas in florida and several in texas. fpl fibernet also has a long-haul network providing bandwidth at wholesale rates. the long-haul network connects major cities in florida and texas with additional connectivity to atlanta, georgia, new york and the south central u.s., including arkansas, louisiana and oklahoma. at december 31, 2014 , fpl fibernet's network consisted of approximately 9,050 route miles. fpl fibernet is subject to regulation by the federal communications commission which has jurisdiction over wire and wireless communication networks and by the public utility commissions in the states in which it provides intrastate telecommunication services. natural gas pipeline systems florida natural gas pipeline system in 2013, fpl announced the winning proposals from its 2012 rfp for an approximately 600-mile natural gas pipeline system for new natural gas transportation infrastructure in florida. the proposed pipeline system will be composed of two pipelines, each of which is expected to be operational beginning in mid-2017. sabal trail, which is 33% owned by a wholly-owned neech subsidiary 21 table of contents and will be a ferc-regulated entity, was selected to build, own and operate the northern pipeline that would originate in southwestern alabama and end at a new hub to be built in central florida (central florida hub). florida southeast connection, which is a wholly-owned neech subsidiary and will be a ferc-regulated entity, was selected to build, own and operate the southern pipeline that would originate at the central florida hub and end in martin county, florida at fpl's martin power plant. total estimated capital expenditures for the 33% portion of the northern pipeline plus the entire southern pipeline are estimated to be approximately $1.5 billion. at december 31, 2014 , nee's investment in the proposed pipeline system totaled approximately $103 million. the obligations of sabal trail and florida southeast connection to build and operate the northern pipeline and southern pipeline, respectively, are subject to certain conditions, including ferc approval. a ferc decision is expected by the end of 2015. see fpl - fpl sources of generation - fossil operations and note 13 - commitments and - contracts. mountain valley pipeline in october 2014, a wholly-owned neech subsidiary committed to make an equity investment in a joint venture which plans to construct an approximately 300-mile natural gas pipeline to connect the natural gas supply in the marcellus and utica shale regions with markets in the southeast region of the u.s. based on the neech subsidiary's expected ownership share, expected equity contributions by the neech subsidiary are approximately $1.0 billion to $1.3 billion depending on the ultimate size and scope of the natural gas pipeline project. the pipeline is expected to be placed in service by the end of 2018. construction of the natural gas pipeline is subject to certain conditions, including ferc approval. nee environmental matters nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. the following is a discussion of certain existing and emerging federal and state initiatives and rules, some of which could potentially have a material effect (either positive or negative) on nee and its subsidiaries. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. clean water act section 316(b). in may 2014, the epa issued its final rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act outlining the process and framework for determining the best technology available to reduce the impact on aquatic organisms from once-through cooling water intake systems. under the rule, potentially eleven of fpl's facilities and five of neer's facilities may be required to add additional controls and/or make operational changes to comply. nee and fpl are analyzing the final rule, and the ultimate impacts will evolve over years of site specific studies, permit evaluations and negotiations. therefore, the impact of any final compliance obligations is uncertain at this time. during the third quarter of 2014, several groups filed petitions for review of the epa's final rule and the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit will hear the case. avian/bat regulations and wind turbine siting guidelines. fpl, neer and neet are subject to numerous environmental regulations and guidelines related to threatened and endangered species and their habitats, as well as avian and bat species, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. the facilities most significantly affected are wind and solar facilities and transmission and distribution lines. the environmental laws in the u.s., including, among others, the endangered species act, the migratory bird treaty act, and the bald and golden eagle protection act and similar environmental laws in canada provide for the protection of migratory birds, eagles and bats and endangered species of birds and bats and their habitats. regulations have been adopted under some of these laws that contain provisions that allow the owner/operator of a facility to apply for a permit to undertake specific activities including those associated with certain siting decisions, construction activities and operations. in addition to regulations, voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines established by the u.s. fish and wildlife service set forth siting, monitoring and coordination protocols that are designed to support wind development in the u.s. while also protecting both birds and bats and their habitats. these guidelines include provisions for specific monitoring and study conditions which need to be met in order for projects to be in adherence with these voluntary guidelines. complying with these environmental regulations and adhering to the provisions set forth in the voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines could result in additional costs or reduced revenues at existing and new wind and solar facilities and transmission and distribution facilities at fpl, neer and neet and, in the case of environmental regulations, failure to comply could result in fines and penalties. regulation of ghg emissions. the u.s. congress and certain states and regions continue to consider several legislative and regulatory proposals with respect to ghg emissions. the government of canada and its provinces are also taking certain actions, such as setting targets or goals, regarding the increase of renewable energy generation and the reduction of ghg emissions. the economic and operational impact of climate change legislation on nee and fpl depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, whether states choose a rate-based or mass-based (based on pounds of co 2 ) approach for the distribution of allowances, the allowed emissions cap, whether emission allowances will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance. based on the most recent reference data available from government sources, nee is among the lowest emitters, among electric generators, of ghg in the u.s. measured by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of co 2 per mwh of generation. however, the legislative and regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on fpl's and neer's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to nee and fpl could be material, 22 table of contents depending on the eventual structure of any specific implementation rules adopted. in 2013, the epa re-proposed standards for new fossil fuel-fired power units pursuant to a presidential memorandum related to the regulation of ghg emissions. the presidential memorandum also directed the epa to issue a final rule for new fossil fuel-fired power units after considering all public comments and to propose a rule for existing fossil fuel-fired power units by june 2014 with a final rule by june 2015. in june 2014, as directed in the presidential memorandum, the epa issued a proposed rule under section 111(d) of the clean air act to reduce carbon emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired power units. the proposed rule, named the clean power plan, sets emission rate targets for each state and requires each state to develop a compliance plan by the summer of 2016 to meet these emissions targets. the proposed rule indicates that official compliance will start in 2020 with both interim and final target dates, each with specific emissions reductions. nee and fpl are analyzing the proposed rule and the impact of any final compliance obligations is uncertain at this time. a final rule is expected in the summer of 2015. neer's plants operate in certain states and regions in the u.s. and provinces in canada that continue to consider and implement regulatory proposals to reduce ghg emissions. rps, currently in place in approximately 30 states and the district of columbia, require electricity providers in the state or district to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources. these standards vary, but the majority include requirements to meet 20% to 25% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025. approximately 7 other states in the u.s. have set renewable energy goals as well. many canadian provinces have enacted renewable energy goals and targets to reduce ghg emissions from historic levels which include various milestones and compliance mechanisms. neer's plants operate in 24 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada that have a rps or renewable energy goals and neer believes that these standards and goals will create incremental demand for renewable energy in the future. other ghg reduction initiatives including, among others, the regional greenhouse gas initiative and the california greenhouse gas regulation aim to reduce emissions through a variety of programs and under varying timelines. based on its clean generating portfolio, neer expects to continue experiencing a positive impact on earnings as a result of these ghg reduction initiatives. additionally, these initiatives provide neer opportunities with regards to wind and solar development as well as favorable energy pricing. waters of the u.s. in march 2014, the epa issued a proposed rule redefining "waters of the u.s." under the clean water act to expand the definition of waters of the u.s. to encompass previously unregulated waters, such as intermittent streams, non-navigable tributaries, isolated wetlands and adjacent other waters. under the proposed rule, subsidiaries of nee could incur increased costs for siting and permitting new projects or when maintaining or making modifications to existing facilities and transmission and distribution lines. the ultimate economic and operational impact of the provisions of the proposed rule cannot be determined at this time. a final rule is not expected before the second quarter of 2015. website access to sec filings nee and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on nee's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information and materials available on nee's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined form 10-k. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. 23 table of contents executive officers of nee (a) name age position effective date miguel arechabala 54 executive vice president, power generation division of nee executive vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2014 deborah h. caplan 52 executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of nee executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of fpl april 15, 2013 paul i. cutler 55 treasurer of nee treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of nee february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 moray p. dewhurst 59 vice chairman and chief financial officer, and executive vice president - finance of nee executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl october 5, 2011 chris n. froggatt 57 vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of nee february 27, 2010 joseph t. kelliher 54 executive vice president, federal regulatory affairs of nee may 18, 2009 manoochehr k. nazar 60 president nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of nee president nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of fpl may 23, 2014 may 30, 2014 armando pimentel, jr. 52 president and chief executive officer of neer october 5, 2011 james l. robo 52 chairman, president and chief executive officer of nee chairman of fpl december 13, 2013 may 2, 2012 charles e. sieving 42 executive vice president &amp; general counsel of nee executive vice president of fpl december 1, 2008 january 1, 2009 eric e. silagy 49 president and chief executive officer of fpl may 30, 2014 william l. yeager 56 executive vice president, engineering, construction &amp; integrated supply chain of nee executive vice president, engineering, construction &amp; integrated supply chain of fpl january 1, 2013 ______________________ (a) information is as of february 20, 2015 . executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his/her present position for five years or more and his/her employment history is continuous. mr. arechabala was president of nextera energy espa a, s.l., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of nee, from february 2010 to december 2013. ms. caplan was vice president and chief operating officer of fpl from may 2011 to april 2013 and vice president, integrated supply chain of nee and fpl from july 2005 to may 2011. mr. dewhurst has been vice chairman of nee since august 2009 and was chief of staff of nee from august 2009 to october 2011. mr. dewhurst has announced his intention to retire from nee and fpl in the spring of 2016. mr. froggatt has been vice president of nee since october 2009. mr. nazar has been chief nuclear officer of nee and fpl since january 2010 and was executive vice president, nuclear division of nee and fpl from january 2010 to may 2014. mr. pimentel was chief financial officer of nee and fpl from may 2008 to october 2011 and executive vice president, finance of nee and fpl from february 2008 to october 2011. mr. robo has been president and chief executive officer of nee since july 2012. mr. robo was the chief executive officer of fpl from may 2012 to may 2014 and president and chief operating officer of nee from december 2006 to june 2012. mr. sieving was also assistant secretary of nee from may 2010 to may 2011 and general counsel of fpl from january 2009 to may 2010. mr. silagy has been president of fpl since december 2011. mr. silagy was senior vice president, regulatory and state governmental affairs of fpl from may 2010 to december 2011 and vice president and chief development officer of fpl from july 2008 to may 2010. mr. yeager was vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain services of nee and fpl from october 2012 to december 2012 and vice president, integrated supply chain of nee and fpl from may 2011 to october 2012. from january 2005 to may 2011, mr. yeager was vice president, engineering and construction of fpl. 24 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to nee's and fpl's business the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of nee and fpl. the following is a description of important risks that may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl and may cause actual results of nee and fpl to differ substantially from those that nee or fpl currently expects or seeks. in that event, the market price for the securities of nee or fpl could decline. accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that nee and fpl file with the sec. the risks described below are not the only risks facing nee and fpl. additional risks and uncertainties may also materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. each of nee and fpl has disclosed the material risks known to it to affect its business at this time. however, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may in the future materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of nee and fpl. regulatory, legislative and legal risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. the operations of nee and fpl are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. this extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, nee's and fpl's industries, businesses, rates and cost structures, operation of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, natural gas, oil and other fuel transportation, processing and storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. in their business planning and in the management of their operations, nee and fpl must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. fpl is a regulated entity subject to the jurisdiction of the fpsc over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers, issuances of securities, and aspects of the siting, construction and operation of its generating plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that fpl is permitted to earn on invested capital. the regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in florida and elsewhere, limits fpl's ability to increase earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. certain subsidiaries of neet, which are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of nee, are regulated electric transmission utilities subject to the jurisdiction of their regulators and subject to similar risks. regulatory decisions that are important to nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. the local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on fpsc decisions with negative consequences for fpl. these decisions may require, for example, fpl to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. certain subsidiaries of neet are subject to similar risks. fpl's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the fpsc. the fpsc engages in an annual prudence review of fpl's use of derivative instruments in its risk management fuel procurement program and should it find any such use to be imprudent, the fpsc could deny cost recovery for such use by fpl. such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 25 table of contents any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives that support utility scale renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer depends heavily on government policies that support utility scale renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which neer operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. the federal government, a majority of the 50 u.s. states and portions of canada and spain provide incentives, such as tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, that support the sale of energy from utility scale renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. as a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their policies that support renewable energy and consider actions that would make the policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives that support renewable energy, such as those reductions that have been enacted in spain and are applicable to neer's solar generating facilities in that country, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations or interpretations or other regulatory initiatives. nee's and fpl's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, new or revised laws, regulations or interpretations or other regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and environmental regulation, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. changes in the nature of the regulation of nee's and fpl's business could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on nee and fpl, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. fpl has limited competition in the florida market for retail electricity customers. any changes in florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the florida retail electricity market, such as government incentives that facilitate the installation of solar generating facilities on residential or other rooftops at below cost, or would permit third-party sales of electricity, could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be no assurance that fpl will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer is subject to ferc rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. nee cannot predict the impact of changing ferc rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond nee's control. there can be no assurance that neer will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any other changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if the rules implementing the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) broaden the scope of its provisions regarding the regulation of otc financial derivatives and make certain provisions applicable to nee and fpl. the dodd-frank act, enacted into law in july 2010 provides for, among other things, substantially increased regulation of the otc derivatives market and futures contract markets. while the legislation is broad and detailed, there are still portions of the legislation that either require implementing rules to be adopted by federal governmental agencies or otherwise require further interpretive guidance. nee and fpl continue to monitor the development of rules related to the dodd-frank act and have taken steps to comply with those rules that affect their businesses. while a number of rules have been finalized and are effective, the rules related to margin requirements for otc derivatives have yet to be finalized. if those rules, when finalized, require nee and fpl to post significant amounts of cash collateral with respect to swap transactions, nee's and fpl's liquidity could be materially adversely affected. 26 table of contents nee and fpl cannot predict the impact these proposed rules will have on their ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks or on otc derivatives markets as a whole, but they could potentially have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities. nee and fpl are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require nee and fpl to limit or eliminate certain operations. nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 , waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and rps, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new legislation, the current trend toward more stringent standards, and stricter and more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. for example, among other potential or pending changes, the use of hydraulic fracturing or similar technologies to drill for natural gas and related compounds used by nee's gas infrastructure business is currently being discussed for regulation at state and federal levels. violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose nee and fpl to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. proceedings could include, for example, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements such as air, water and soil quality standards. nee's and fpl's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 and methane, from electric generating units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. the potential effects of such greenhouse gas emission limits on nee's and fpl's electric generating units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. while nee's and fpl's electric generating units emit greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the u.s. electric generation sector, the results of operations of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state laws or regulations impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; make some of nee's and fpl's electric generating units uneconomical to operate in the long term; require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. there can be no assurance that nee or fpl would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. extensive federal regulation of the operations of nee and fpl exposes nee and fpl to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. nee and fpl are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on nee's and fpl's operations. additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. as an example, under the energy policy act of 2005, nee and fpl, as owners and operators of bulk-power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject nee and fpl to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if fpl or nee is found not to be in compliance with these standards, it may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 27 table of contents changes in tax laws, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations, the financial condition and results of operations of nee and fpl, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. ultimate resolution of income tax matters may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings in which nee is involved or other future legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, class action lawsuits, may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. operational risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if nee and fpl do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. nee's and fpl's ability to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, native american and aboriginal groups, and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. if any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may otherwise be available, and nee and fpl could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write off all or a portion of their investment in the project. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. nee and fpl own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generating and transmission facilities. a key component of nee's and fpl's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. as part of these operations, nee and fpl must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. should nee or fpl be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on nee or fpl, nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at higher prices. 28 table of contents uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining nee's and fpl's facilities include, but are not limited to: risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and droughts; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires or other major events, of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines; availability of replacement equipment; risks of property damage or human injury from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires or other events; availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; inability to identify, manage properly or mitigate equipment defects in nee's and fpl's facilities; use of new or unproven technology; risks associated with dependence on a specific type of fuel or fuel source, such as commodity price risk, availability of adequate fuel supply and transportation, and lack of available alternative fuel sources; increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply and shifting demand; and insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities. customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of nee and fpl, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. a lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity may cause nee and fpl to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. in addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of fuel and water, and require nee and fpl to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. furthermore, nee's and fpl's physical plant could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to fpl, a change in sea level. fpl operates in the east and lower west coasts of florida, an area that historically has been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. a disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent nee and fpl from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. at fpl and other businesses of nee where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generating facilities, including, but not limited to, neer's wind and solar facilities. for example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generating facilities. because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, neer's results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and nee's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. to the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. 29 table of contents threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt nee's and fpl's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. there have been cyber attacks on energy infrastructure such as substations, gas pipelines and related assets in the past and there may be such attacks in the future. nee's and fpl's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or be indirectly affected by, such activities. terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other similar events affecting nee's and fpl's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which nee and fpl rely, could harm nee's and fpl's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power, by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generating facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. these events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), and reputational damage, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair nee's and fpl's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). in addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. such events or actions may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. nee's and fpl's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to nee and fpl. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. if insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, nee or fpl may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. nee and fpl generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. for example, fpl is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but would instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the fpsc, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. a loss for which nee or fpl is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee invests in gas and oil producing assets through neer's gas infrastructure business. the gas infrastructure business is exposed to fluctuating market prices of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil and other energy commodities. a prolonged period of low gas and oil prices could impact neer's gas infrastructure business and cause neer to delay or cancel certain gas infrastructure projects and for certain existing projects to be impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. natural gas and oil prices are affected by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, political instability, conflicts, economic conditions and actions by major oil-producing countries. there can be significant volatility in market prices for gas and oil, and price fluctuations could have a material effect on the financial performance of gas and oil producing assets. for example, in a low gas and oil price environment, neer would generate less revenue from its gas infrastructure investments in gas and oil producing properties, and as a result certain investments might become less profitable or incur losses. prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices could also result in oil and gas production projects being delayed or cancelled and for certain existing projects to be impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. if supply costs necessary to provide neer's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. the supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. neer may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, neer's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the commodity risks within its portfolios 30 table of contents could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. nee's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures, based on factors both from within, or wholly or partially outside of, nee's control, may materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. sales of power on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis may cause nee's results of operations to be volatile. a portion of neer's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis. spot market sales are subject to market volatility, and the revenue generated from these sales is subject to fluctuation that may cause nee's results of operations to be volatile. neer and nee may not be able to manage volatility adequately, which could then have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of nee to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect nee's results of operations. nee is an active participant in energy markets. the liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in nee's ability to manage risks in these operations. over the past several years, other market participants have ceased or significantly reduced their activities in energy markets as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to, government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. nee and fpl have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. nee and fpl are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks, including, without limitation, employee misconduct. if such procedures and tools are not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, nee's and fpl's risk management tools associated with their hedging and trading procedures may not protect against significant losses. nee's and fpl's risk management tools and metrics associated with their hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, nee and fpl are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against material adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, fpl's and neer's ability to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. fpl and neer depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond fpl's and neer's control (such as severe weather or a generation or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt the ability of fpl and neer to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. nee and fpl are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with nee and fpl. if any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, nee and fpl may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation 31 table of contents facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. if a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, nee and fpl may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if nee or fpl is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. nee and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the otc markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for nee to engage in trading and marketing activities. any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. similarly, any requirement for fpl or nee to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite nee's and fpl's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. if nee's or fpl's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised and nee and fpl could be unable to fulfill critical business functions. nee's and fpl's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. due to the size, scope and geographical reach of nee's and fpl's business, and due to the complexity of the process of power generation, transmission and distribution, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process information is critical and challenging. nee's and fpl's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, their control, such as operator error, severe weather or terrorist activities. any such failure or disabling event could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues and the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. nee and fpl also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. nee's and fpl's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in a material adverse impact to their reputation and/or the results of operations of the retail business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. if a significant breach occurred, the reputation of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. nee and fpl would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or nee and fpl could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in otc markets. nee and fpl execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the otc markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. transactions executed in otc markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. as a result, nee and fpl may not be able to execute desired otc transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. 32 table of contents in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment and use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity. from time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting nee and fpl. adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from nee's and fpl's business. addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of nee and fpl, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with their respective regulators. it may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. the direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in florida. fpl must negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of fpl's revenues. if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and fpl may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. increasing costs associated with health care plans may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's results of operations. the costs of providing health care benefits to employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years. nee and fpl anticipate that their employee benefit costs, including, but not limited to, costs related to health care plans for employees and former employees, will continue to rise. the increasing costs and funding requirements associated with nee's and fpl's health care plans may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be negatively affected by the lack of a qualified workforce or the loss or retirement of key employees. nee and fpl may not be able to service customers, grow their business or generally meet their other business plan goals effectively and profitably if they do not attract and retain a qualified workforce. additionally, the loss or retirement of key executives and other employees may materially adversely affect service and productivity and contribute to higher training and safety costs. over the next several years, a significant portion of nee's and fpl's workforce, including, but not limited to, many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the nuclear generation facilities and electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire. such highly skilled individuals may not be able to be replaced quickly due to the technically complex work they perform. if a significant amount of such workers retire and are not replaced, the subsequent loss in productivity and increased recruiting and training costs could result in a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these consequences could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. nee is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry in general. in addition, nee may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. 33 table of contents nuclear generation risks the construction, operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. nee and fpl maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in nee's and fpl's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. if nee or fpl is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of fpl, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. in the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, nee and fpl could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the price-anderson act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. in accordance with this act, nee maintains $375 million of private liability insurance per site, which is the maximum obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides up to $13.2 billion of liability insurance coverage per incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. under the secondary financial protection system, nee is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums of up to $1 billion ($509 million for fpl), plus any applicable taxes, per incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident, payable at a rate not to exceed $152 million ($76 million for fpl) per incident per year. such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require nee and fpl to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities. the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a nuclear generation facility, or to take both of these actions, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. any of the foregoing events could require nee and fpl to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. any serious nuclear incident occurring at a nee or fpl plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. an incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the nrc to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, or on certain types of nuclear generation units, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. the inability to operate any of neer's or fpl's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the operating licenses for nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities extend through at least 2030. if the facilities cannot be operated for any reason through the life of those operating licenses, nee or fpl may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. various hazards posed to nuclear generation facilities, along with increased public attention to and awareness of such hazards, could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs which are difficult or impossible to predict and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the threat of terrorist activity, as well as recent international events implicating the safety of nuclear facilities, could result in more stringent or complex measures to keep facilities safe from a variety of hazards, including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis, as well as terrorist or other criminal threats. this increased focus on safety could result in higher compliance costs which, at present, cannot be assessed with any measure of certainty and which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 34 table of contents nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. if planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, nee's and fpl's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. in addition, outages may be scheduled, often in connection with a refueling outage, to replace equipment, to increase the generation capacity at a particular nuclear unit, or for other purposes, and those planned activities increase the time the unit is not in operation. in the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. liquidity, capital requirements and common stock risks disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of nee and fpl. nee and fpl rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets, including, but not limited to, the conditions of the most recent financial crises in the u.s. and abroad, could increase nee's and fpl's cost of capital. if nee or fpl is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. although nee's competitive energy subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. the inability of nee's subsidiaries to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific financing for electric-generating and other facilities on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by nee and/or neech in the future. the inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. such an occurrence also could result in nee expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. any of these actions could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for nee or its subsidiaries. nee's, neech's and fpl's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of nee and fpl to grow their business, and increase interest costs. the inability of nee, neech and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could materially adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact nee's and fpl's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, and political, legislative and regulatory actions. there can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of nee, neech and fpl will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. nee's and fpl's liquidity may be impaired if their credit providers are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. the inability of nee's, neech's and fpl's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require nee, neech or fpl, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity. poor market performance and other economic factors could affect nee's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and prospects. 35 table of contents nee sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of nee and its subsidiaries. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. nee's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since, as interest rates decrease the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of nee's and fpl's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations. nee and fpl are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. certain of nee's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may materially adversely affect nee's liquidity, financial results and results of operations. nee holds other investments where changes in the fair value affect nee's financial results. in some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. this type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. a sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to nee. nee is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. substantially all of nee's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. nee's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to nee. nee's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide nee with funds for its payment obligations. the subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can provide nee with funds. in addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, nee's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. the dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. the future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of nee's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if nee is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. nee guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than fpl, through guarantee agreements with neech. these guarantees may require nee to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when nee is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect nee's ability to meet its financial obligations or to pay dividends. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of nee's common stock. the market price and trading volume of nee's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of nee and its subsidiaries. as a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of nee's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity. 68 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on nee's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause nee's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of nee and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and nee and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nextera energy, inc. (hereafter, nee), with approximately 46,400 mw of generating capacity, is one of the largest electric power companies in north america with electric generation facilities located in 27 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada, and employing approximately 14,300 people as of december 31, 2015 . nee provides retail and wholesale electric services to more than 5.3 million customers and owns generation, transmission and distribution facilities to support its services, as well as has investments in gas infrastructure assets. it also provides risk management services related to power and gas consumption related to its own generation assets and for a limited number of wholesale customers in selected markets. nee, through neer, is the largest generator in north america of renewable energy from the wind and sun based on mwh produced. in addition, nee owns and operates approximately 15% of the installed base of u.s. wind power production capacity and owns and/or operates approximately 9% of the installed base of u.s. utility-scale solar power production capacity as of december 31, 2015 . nee also owns and operates one of the largest fleets of nuclear power stations in the u.s., with eight reactors at five sites located in four states, representing approximately 6% of u.s. nuclear power electric generating capacity as of december 31, 2015 . nee's business strategy has emphasized the development, acquisition and operation of renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired generation facilities in response to long-term federal policy trends supportive of zero and low air emissions sources of power. nee's generation fleet has significantly lower rates of emissions of co 2 , so 2 and nox than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry with approximately 97% of its 2015 generation, measured by mwh produced, coming from renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired facilities. nee was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida and conducts its operations principally through two wholly owned subsidiaries, florida power &amp; light company (hereafter, fpl) and nextera energy resources, llc (hereafter, neer). nextera energy capital holdings, inc. (hereafter, neech), another wholly owned subsidiary of nee, owns and provides funding for neer's and nee's operating subsidiaries, other than fpl and its subsidiaries. nee's two principal businesses also constitute nee's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. during 2014, nee formed nep to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows. see ii. neer for further discussion of nep. nee's and neer's generating capacity discussed in this combined form 10-k includes approximately 480 mw associated with noncontrolling interests related to nep as of december 31, 2015 . see item 2. properties. fpl is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in florida. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. based on retail mwh sales. fpl is vertically integrated, with approximately 25,300 mw of generating capacity as of december 31, 2015 . fpl's investments in its infrastructure since 2001, such as modernizing less-efficient fossil generation plants to produce more energy with less fuel and fewer air emissions, increasing generating capacity at its existing nuclear units and upgrading its transmission and distribution systems to deliver service reliability that is the best of the florida investor-owned utilities, have provided significant benefits to fpl's customers, all while providing residential and commercial bills that were among the lowest in florida and below the national average based on a rate per kwh as of july 2015 (the latest date for which this data is available). with approximately 95% of its power generation coming from natural gas, nuclear and solar, fpl is also one of the cleanest electric utilities in the nation. based on 2015 information, fpl's emissions rates for co 2 , so 2 and nox were 35%, 97% and 71% lower, respectively, than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry. neer, with approximately 21,100 mw of generating capacity at december 31, 2015 , is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with 20,120 mw of generating capacity across 25 states, and has 920 mw of generating capacity in 4 4 table of contents canadian provinces. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources, including wind and solar. neer also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities and invests in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production and pipeline infrastructure assets. neech's other business activities are primarily conducted through neet and fpl fibernet. through its subsidiaries, neet owns and operates rate-regulated transmission facilities, the largest of which is owned by lone star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in texas. fpl fibernet delivers wholesale and enterprise telecommunications services in florida, texas and certain areas of the south central u.s. nee seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors, as described in more detail in the following sections. nee's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both fpl and neer. management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities available to it; however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by fpl and neer is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise and recognizes that each business contributes to nee's credit profile in different ways. fpl and neer, as well as other nee subsidiaries, share common support functions with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses. during 2013, nee and its subsidiaries commenced an enterprise-wide initiative focused mainly on improving productivity and reducing o&amp;m expenses (cost savings initiative), and management expects to continue those efforts going forward. in 2014, nee and hawaiian electric industries, inc. (hei) announced a proposed merger pursuant to which hawaiian electric company, inc., hei's wholly owned electric utility subsidiary, will become a wholly owned subsidiary of nee. the merger agreement contains certain termination rights for both nee and hei, including the right of either party to terminate the merger agreement if the merger has not been completed by june 3, 2016. completion of the merger and the actual closing date remain subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including hawaii public utilities commission approval. see note 1 - proposed merger for further discussion. nee's operating subsidiaries i. fpl fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of nee. fpl is a rate-regulated electric utility and is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. based on retail mwh sales. fpl, with 25,254 mw of generating capacity at december 31, 2015 , supplies electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of florida, serving more than 9.5 million people through approximately 4.8 million customer accounts. at december 31, 2015 , fpl's service territory and plant locations are as follows (see item 2. properties - generation facilities): 5 table of contents franchise agreements and competition fpl's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. alternatively, municipalities and counties may form their own utility companies to provide service to their residents. in a very few cases, an fpl franchise agreement provides the respective municipality the right to buy the electrical assets serving local residents at the end of the agreement. however, during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and fpl has the right to offer electric service to residents. fpl currently holds 179 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2046. none of these franchise agreements expire in 2016, two expire in 2017 and 177 expire during the period 2018 through 2046. these franchise agreements cover approximately 88% of fpl's retail customer base in florida. negotiations are ongoing to renew the franchise agreements that expire in 2017. fpl considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. fpl also provides service to 12 other municipalities and to 21 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility. fpl relies upon florida law for access to public rights of way. because any customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, fpl effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. as a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since fpl's cost of service is substantially lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. changing technology, economic conditions and other factors could alter the favorable relative cost position that fpl currently enjoys; however, fpl seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of high reliability, low bills and excellent customer service. in addition to self-generation by residential, commercial and industrial customers, fpl also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources. in each of 2015, 2014 and 2013, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 5%, 5% and 3%, respectively, of fpl's total operating revenues. the fpsc promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam and solar generating capacity of 75 mw or greater by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, including fpl, to issue an rfp except when the fpsc determines that an exception from the rfp process is in the public interest. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. new nuclear power plants are exempt from the rfp requirement. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations below. customers and revenue fpl's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within florida. fpl revenues from wholesale sales increased in both 2015 and 2014, primarily due to an increase in contracted load served under existing and new wholesale contracts. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues and customer accounts by customer class were as follows: for both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that fpl may charge are approved by regulatory bodies, by the fpsc in the case of retail customers, and by the ferc in the case of wholesale customers. in general, under u.s. and florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. since 6 table of contents the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed, there can be no guarantee that fpl will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates. see fpl regulation below. fpl seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low-cost position, including the implementation of ideas generated from the cost savings initiative discussed above. a common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the price of 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer. fpl's 2015 average bill for 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was the lowest among reporting electric utilities within florida as indicated below: power delivery fpl provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers. fpl also maintains interconnection facilities with neighboring utilities and non-utility generators inside its service territory, enabling it to buy and sell wholesale electricity and to enhance the reliability of its own network and support the reliability of neighboring networks. fpl's transmission system carries high voltage electricity from its generation facilities to substations where the electricity is stepped down to lower voltage levels and is sent through the distribution system to its customers. a key element of fpl's strategy is to provide highly reliable service to its customers. the transmission and distribution system is susceptible to interruptions or outages from a wide variety of sources including weather, animal and vegetation interference, traffic accidents, equipment failure and many others, and fpl seeks to reduce or eliminate outages where economically practical and to restore service rapidly when outages occur. a common industry benchmark for transmission and distribution system reliability is the system average interruption duration index (saidi), which represents the number of minutes the average customer is without power during a time period. for the five years 2010 - 2014, fpl's average annual saidi was the best of the investor-owned utilities in florida. fpl has accelerated its existing storm hardening and reliability program, to continue strengthening its infrastructure against tropical storms and hurricanes. also, as part of its commitment to building a smarter, more reliable and efficient electric infrastructure, fpl has installed approximately 4.9 million smart meters and more than 35,000 other intelligent devices throughout the electric grid. fpl system capability and load at december 31, 2015 , fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 26,073 mw, of which 25,254 mw were from fpl-owned facilities (see item 2. properties - generation facilities) and approximately 819 mw were available through purchased power agreements (see fpl sources of generation - purchased power below). fpl customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. the highest peak load fpl has served to date was 24,346 mw, which occurred on january 11, 2010. fpl had adequate resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand. fpl's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2016 is approximately 22%. this reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of available output from fpl's active generation units, purchased power agreements and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of demand side management programs, including load management which was estimated at december 31, 2015 to be capable of reducing demand by approximately 1,700 mw, and energy efficiency and conservation programs. see fpl sources of generation - fossil operations and - nuclear operations below regarding generation projects currently under construction. 7 table of contents fpl sources of generation fpl relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generation facilities, along with purchased power, in order to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix by responding to market and industry developments. see descriptions of fossil, nuclear and solar operations below and a listing of fpl's generation facilities in item 2. properties - generation facilities. fpl's 2015 fuel mix based on mwh produced, including purchased power, was as follows: oil and solar are collectively less than 1% fossil operations (natural gas, coal and oil) at december 31, 2015 , fpl owned and operated 70 units that used fossil fuels, primarily natural gas, and had a joint ownership interest in 3 coal units. combined, the fossil fleet provided 21,766 mw of generating capacity for fpl. these fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity demand. a common industry benchmark for fossil unit reliability is the equivalent forced outage rate (efor), which represents a generation unit's inability to provide electricity when required to operate. for the five years 2010 - 2014, fpl's average annual efor was in the top decile among its electric utility fossil fleet peers in the u.s. fpl's natural gas plants require natural gas transportation, supply and storage. fpl has firm transportation contracts in place for existing pipeline capacity with five different transportation suppliers. these agreements provide for an aggregate maximum delivery quantity of 2,069,000 mmbtu/day with expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2036 that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of the currently anticipated needs for natural gas transportation through the end of 2016. to the extent desirable, fpl also purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from these natural gas transportation suppliers based on pipeline availability. fpl has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. fpl has an agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2017. see note 14 - contracts. in 2013, the fpsc approved fpl's 25-year natural gas transportation agreements with each of sabal trail and florida southeast connection for a quantity of 400,000 mmbtu/day beginning on may 1, 2017 and increasing to 600,000 mmbtu/day on may 1, 2020. these new agreements, when combined with fpl's existing agreements, are expected to satisfy substantially all of fpl's natural gas transportation needs through at least 2020. fpl's firm commitments under the new agreements are contingent upon the occurrence of certain events, including the ferc's approval of applications by each of sabal trail and florida southeast connection for authorization of their pipeline projects and of the application by transcontinental gas pipe line company, llc (transco) for authorization of a pipeline expansion project and the lease of pipeline capacity to sabal trail, as well as completion of construction of the pipeline system to be built by sabal trail and florida southeast connection. in february 2016, the ferc issued an order granting the requested authorizations, subject to certain conditions. sabal trail, florida southeast connection and transco are 8 table of contents evaluating the conditions, and one or more of them are currently expected to request a rehearing. see neer - generation and other operations - natural gas pipelines below and note 14 - contracts. in march 2015, after receiving fpsc approval, a wholly owned subsidiary of fpl partnered with a third party to develop up to 38 natural gas production wells in the woodford shale region in southeastern oklahoma and in return began receiving its ownership share of the natural gas produced from these wells. in july 2015, the fpsc approved a set of guidelines under which fpl could participate in additional natural gas production projects through investments of up to $500 million annually with an escalating annual production cap as a percent of fpl's total natural gas burn, with an emphasis on investing in proven and probable reserves. these investments in long-term natural gas supplies will provide fpl with a physical hedge on the price of natural gas to fuel its fossil generation fleet. fpl will recover the costs associated with the investments in these natural gas production wells through the fuel clause. in 2015, the state of florida office of public counsel (office of public counsel) and florida industrial power users group have each filed notices of appeal to the florida supreme court challenging the fpsc's approval of fpl's initial investment in the woodford shale natural gas production wells and challenging the fpsc's approval of the guidelines, which appeals are pending. st. johns river power park (sjrpp) units nos. 1 and 2, coal-fired units in which fpl has a joint ownership interest, have firm coal supply and transportation contracts for all of their fuel and transportation needs through 2017. scherer unit no. 4, the other coal-fired unit in which fpl has a joint ownership interest, has firm coal supply contracts for a portion of its fuel needs through 2016, and transportation contracts for all of its needs through 2019 and a portion of its needs through 2028. any of the remaining fuel requirements for these coal-fired units, as well as for a 250 mw coal-fired generation facility located in jacksonville, florida that was purchased in september 2015 (cedar bay), will be obtained in the spot market. see note 14 - contracts and note 1 - rate regulation. with respect to its oil plants, fpl obtains its fuel requirements in the spot market. capital initiatives new generation facility proposed - in january 2016, the fpsc approved fpl's proposal to build a new approximately 1,600 mw natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit in okeechobee county, florida, with a planned in-service date of mid-2019. this new unit is also subject to approval by the siting board (comprised of the governor and cabinet) under the florida electrical power plant siting act, which decision is expected by the end of 2016. modernization project - fpl is in the process of modernizing its port everglades power plant to a high-efficiency natural gas-fired unit that is expected to provide approximately 1,240 mw of capacity and be placed in service by april 2016. peaker upgrade project - fpl is in the process of replacing 44 of its 48 gas turbines at its lauderdale, port everglades and fort myers facilities, totaling approximately 1,700 mw of capacity, with 7 high-efficiency, low-emission turbines at its lauderdale and fort myers facilities, totaling approximately 1,610 mw of capacity, by december 2016. in addition, fpl is upgrading 2 additional simple-cycle combustion turbines at its fort myers facility, which are expected to add an additional 50 mw of capacity by december 2016. nuclear operations at december 31, 2015 , fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 3,453 mw. facility mw operating license expiration dates st. lucie unit no. 1 981 2036 st. lucie unit no. 2 840 2043 turkey point unit no. 3 811 2032 turkey point unit no. 4 821 2033 fpl has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from late february 2016 through 2031. see note 14 - commitments. nrc regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the applicable operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 commencing in 2043. projects to add additional capacity. fpl's need petition for two additional nuclear units at its turkey point site was approved by the fpsc in 2008 and fpl is moving forward with activities necessary to obtain all permits, licenses and approvals necessary for construction and operation of the units. the two units are expected to add a total of approximately 2,200 mw of capacity. the timing of commercial operation will be subject to various regulatory approvals from the fpsc and other agencies which will be required throughout the licensing and development processes and the nuclear units are expected to be placed in-service in 2027 and 2028. the nrc's decision regarding issuance of the licenses for the two units is expected in mid-2017. 9 table of contents nuclear unit scheduled refueling outages. fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. the following table summarizes each unit's next scheduled refueling outage: facility next scheduled refueling outage st. lucie unit no. 1 september 2016 st. lucie unit no. 2 march 2017 turkey point unit no. 3 march 2017 turkey point unit no. 4 march 2016 spent nuclear fuel. fpl's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. in 2014, the nrc issued its continued storage of spent nuclear fuel rule which supports the nrc's determination that licensees can safely store spent nuclear fuel at nuclear power plants indefinitely. various parties have filed petitions with the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit (d.c. circuit) challenging the rule and requesting that the nrc suspend final reactor licensing decisions in all open nrc licensing proceedings (including the licensing proceeding for two additional nuclear units at fpl's turkey point site) alleging that the rule is deficient. briefs were filed in november 2015 and oral argument has been scheduled for late february 2016. nuclear waste policy act of 1982, as amended (nuclear waste policy act) - under the nuclear waste policy act, the doe is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. as required by the nuclear waste policy act, fpl is a party to contracts with the doe to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its nuclear units. the doe was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by january 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants which fee was subsequently set to zero effective may 2014. the doe did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the nuclear waste policy act. in 2009, fpl and certain of fpl's nuclear plant joint owners entered into a settlement agreement (spent fuel settlement agreement) with the u.s. government agreeing to dismiss with prejudice lawsuits filed against the u.s. government seeking damages caused by the doe's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from fpl's nuclear plants. the spent fuel settlement agreement permits fpl to make annual filings to recover certain spent fuel storage costs incurred by fpl which are reimbursable by the u.s. government on an annual basis. yucca mountain - in 2010, the doe filed a motion with the nrc to withdraw its license application for a nuclear waste repository at yucca mountain, which request was denied. in 2011, the nrc issued an order suspending the yucca mountain licensing proceeding, which order was challenged, and in 2013, the d.c. circuit issued an order requiring the nrc to proceed with the legally mandated licensing process for a nuclear waste repository at yucca mountain. the nrc has completed the technical review of the application and is planning to supplement the doe's environmental impact statement. certain requirements must be met before the nrc can issue a license for the repository. solar operations solar generation can be provided primarily through two conventions: utility-owned and customer-owned or leased. in utility-owned solar generation, the energy generated goes directly to the electric grid, whereas customer-owned or leased solar generation generally goes directly to the location it is serving with any excess over that local need being fed back to the electric grid. there are two principal solar technologies used for utility-scale projects: pv and thermal. at december 31, 2015 , fpl owned and operated two solar pv generation facilities, which provided a total of 35 mw of generating capacity, and a 75 mw solar thermal hybrid facility. fpl supports the advancement of solar generation primarily for its fuel diversity and emissions reduction benefits, and plans to continue to support, study and pursue solar generation that is beneficial for fpl's customers. fpl is in the process of building three solar pv projects that are expected to provide approximately 74 mw each and be placed into service by the end of 2016. purchased power in addition to owning generation facilities, fpl also purchases power and capacity from non-utility generators and other utilities to meet customer demand through long-term purchased power agreements. as of december 31, 2015 , fpl's long-term purchased power agreements provided for the purchase of approximately 819 mw of power with expiration dates ranging from 2021 through 2034. see note 14 - contracts. on occasion, fpl may procure short-term power and capacity for both economic and reliability purposes. in september 2015, fpl assumed ownership of cedar bay and terminated fpl's long-term purchased power agreement for substantially all of the facility's capacity and energy. see note 1 - rate regulation. 10 table of contents fpl energy marketing and trading fpl's energy marketing &amp; trading division (emt) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see fpl regulation - fpl rate regulation below, management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 3. fpl regulation fpl's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following: the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things; the ferc, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of generation, transmission and other facilities, transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce, proposals to build interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things; the nerc, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the ferc, to ensure the reliability of the u.s. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts; the nrc, which has jurisdiction over the operation of nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders; and the epa, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws. the epa also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts. fpl rate regulation the fpsc sets rates at a level that is intended to allow fpl the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to fpl's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. base rates . in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are established, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the fpsc's determination of fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that any regulatory roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings. proceedings can occur at the initiative of fpl or upon action by the fpsc. base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the fpsc. in january 2013, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement). key elements of the 2012 rate agreement, which is effective from january 2013 through december 2016, include, among other things, the following: new retail base rates and charges were established in january 2013 resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of $350 million on an annualized basis. fpl's allowed regulatory roe is 10.50%, with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points. if fpl's earned regulatory roe falls below 9.50%, fpl may seek retail base rate relief. if the earned regulatory roe rises above 11.50%, any party to the 2012 rate agreement other than fpl may seek a review of fpl's retail base rates. retail base rates will be increased by the annualized base revenue requirements for fpl's three modernization projects (cape canaveral, riviera beach and port everglades) as each of the modernized power plants becomes operational. (cape canaveral and riviera beach became operational in april 2013 and april 2014, respectively, and port everglades is expected to be operational by april 2016.) cost recovery of wcec unit no. 3, which was placed in service in may 2011, will continue to occur through the capacity clause. subject to certain conditions, fpl may amortize, over the term of the 2012 rate agreement, a depreciation reserve surplus remaining at the end of 2012 under a previous rate agreement (approximately $224 million) and may amortize a portion of fpl's fossil dismantlement reserve up to a maximum of $176 million (collectively, the reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, fpl must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.50% earned regulatory roe but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory roe in excess of 11.50%. see below regarding a subsequent reduction in the reserve amount. 11 table of contents future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. if storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, fpl may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover the amount above $800 million. an incentive mechanism whereby customers will receive 100% of certain gains, including, but not limited to, gains from the purchase and sale of electricity and natural gas (including transportation and storage), up to a specified threshold; gains exceeding that specified threshold will be shared by fpl and its customers (incentive mechanism). in august 2015, the fpsc approved a stipulation and settlement between the office of public counsel and fpl regarding issues relating to the ratemaking treatment for fpl's purchase of cedar bay. as part of this settlement, the amount of the reserve was reduced by $30 million to $370 million, unless fpl needs the entire $400 million reserve to maintain a minimum regulatory roe of 9.50%. in october 2015, the florida industrial power users group filed a notice of appeal challenging the fpsc's approval of this settlement, which is pending before the florida supreme court. in january 2016, fpl filed a formal notification with the fpsc indicating its intent to initiate a base rate proceeding, consisting of a four-year rate plan that would begin in january 2017 following the expiration of the 2012 rate agreement at the end of 2016. the notification stated that, based on preliminary estimates, fpl expects to request an increase to base annual revenue requirements of (i) approximately $860 million effective january 2017, (ii) approximately $265 million effective january 2018, and (iii) approximately $200 million effective when the proposed natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit in okeechobee county, florida becomes operational, which is expected to occur in mid-2019 (see fpl sources of generation - fossil operations - capital initiatives above). under the proposed rate plan, fpl commits that if its requested adjustments to base annual revenue requirements are approved, it will not request further adjustments for 2020. in addition, fpl expects to propose an allowed regulatory roe midpoint of 11.50%, which includes a 50 basis point performance adder. fpl expects to file its formal request to initiate a base rate proceeding in march 2016. cost recovery clauses . cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange expense, certain construction-related costs and conservation and certain environmental-related costs. cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class. these cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. fuel costs and energy charges under the purchased power agreements are recovered from customers through the fuel clause, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses in terms of operating revenues. fpl uses a risk management fuel procurement program which has been approved by the fpsc. the fpsc reviews the program activities and results for prudence annually as part of its review of fuel costs. the program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of fpl's fuel requirements. see fpl energy marketing and trading above, note 1 - rate regulation and note 3. costs associated with fpl's investments in natural gas production wells are also recovered through the fuel clause. see fpl sources of generation - fossil operations above. capacity payments to non-utility generators and other utilities, the cost of wcec unit no. 3 (reported as retail base revenues) and a portion of the acquisition cost of cedar bay, among other things, are recovered from customers through the capacity clause. see note 1 - rate regulation. in accordance with the fpsc's nuclear cost recovery rule, fpl also recovers pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax afudc rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity clause. as property related to the new nuclear capacity goes into service, construction costs and a return on investment are recovered through base rate increases effective beginning the following january. see fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations above. costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 and costs associated with fpl's three operating solar facilities are recovered through the environmental cost recovery clause (environmental clause). the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. these costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. ferc the federal power act grants the ferc exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce. pursuant to the federal power act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the ferc which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of ferc-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. the federal power act also gives the ferc authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to establish and independently enforce mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system. see nerc below. electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and 12 table of contents reporting requirements administered by the ferc. the ferc also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates. nerc the nerc has been certified by the ferc as the national electric reliability organization. the nerc's mandate is to ensure the reliability and security of the north american bulk-power system through the establishment and enforcement of reliability standards approved by ferc. the nerc's regional entities also enforce reliability standards approved by the ferc. fpl is subject to these reliability standards and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them. fpl environmental regulation fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by some of the emerging issues described in the nee environmental matters section below. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. fpl employees fpl had approximately 8,800 employees at december 31, 2015 . approximately 34% of the employees are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2017. ii. neer neer was formed in 1998 to aggregate nee's competitive energy businesses. it is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware and is a wholly owned subsidiary of neech. through its subsidiaries, neer currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generation facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the u.s., as well as in canada and spain. see note 15. neer is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with 21,140 mw of generating capacity across 25 states, 4 canadian provinces and 1 spanish province as of december 31, 2015 . neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. neer is the largest generator in north america of electric power from wind and utility-scale solar energy projects based on mwh produced. neer also engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, to hedge the production from its generation assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements. these contracts primarily include power and gas commodities and their related products, as well as providing full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offering customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers. in addition, neer participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production through non-operating ownership interests, and in pipeline infrastructure development, construction, management and operations, through either wholly owned subsidiaries or noncontrolling or joint venture interests, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business. neer also hedges the expected output from its gas infrastructure production assets to protect against price movements. during the fourth quarter of 2015, the natural gas pipeline projects that were previously reported in corporate and other were moved to the neer segment reflecting the overall scale of the natural gas pipeline investments and management of these projects within neer's gas infrastructure business. see note 15. as discussed in the overview above, during 2014, nep was formed to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows through a limited partner interest in nep opco. through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, nee owns 101,440,000 common units of nep opco representing a noncontrolling interest in nep's operating projects of approximately 76.8% as of december 31, 2015. nee owns a controlling general partner interest in nep and consolidates nep for financial reporting purposes. see note 1 - nextera energy partners, lp. as of december 31, 2015 , nep, through the combination of neer's contribution of energy projects to nep opco in connection with nep's ipo in july 2014 and the acquisition of additional energy projects from neer in 2015, owns a portfolio of 19 wind and solar projects with generating capacity totaling approximately 2,210 mw and long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets as discussed below. in addition, nep opco has a right of first offer for certain of neer's assets (rofo assets) if neer should seek to sell the assets. the rofo assets remaining as of december 31, 2015 , include contracted wind and solar projects, some of which are under construction, with a combined capacity of approximately 1,076 mw. included in the rofo assets are three solar projects that, upon completion of construction, are expected to have a total generating capacity of 277 mw. in 2015, nep opco issued 2 million nep opco class b units to neer in exchange for an approximately 50% ownership interest in the three solar projects. neer, as holder of the class b units, will retain 100% of the economic interests if, and until, neer offers to sell the economic interests to nep and nep accepts such offer. in october 2015, nep completed the acquisition of the membership interests in net holdings management, llc (texas pipeline business), a developer, owner and operator of a portfolio of seven intrastate long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets located in texas (texas pipelines). see generation and other operations - contracted, merchant and other operations - other operations below. 13 table of contents markets and competition electricity markets in the u.s. and canada are regional and diverse in character. all are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. the nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region. generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, neer may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. neer's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities may also be constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing. the degree and nature of competition that neer faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets. during 2015, approximately 92% of neer's revenue was derived from wholesale electricity markets. wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. neer primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of neer's generation assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage reliable customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages. wholesale power generation is a regional business that is highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. as such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies neer competes with depending on the market. in wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services. in general, u.s. electricity markets encompass three classes of services: energy, capacity and ancillary services. energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services related to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves. the exact nature of these classes of services is defined in part by regional tariffs. not all regions have a capacity services class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region. rtos and isos exist in a number of regions within which neer operates to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets. neer also has operations that fall within the western electricity coordinating council reliability region that are not under the jurisdiction of an established rto or iso. although each rto and iso may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. neer has operations that fall within the following rtos and isos: alberta electric system operator california independent system operator ercot independent electricity system operator (in ontario) iso new england (iso-ne) midcontinent independent system operator, inc. new york independent system operator pjm southwest power pool neer competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generation facilities, and, as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 66% of neer's generating capacity is fully committed under long-term contracts. where long-term contracts are not in effect, neer sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. in such cases, neer will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically of less than three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, may only protect a portion of the revenue that neer expects to derive from the associated generation facility and may not qualify for hedge accounting under gaap. contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under gaap are referred to as non-qualifying hedges for adjusted earnings purposes. see management's discussion - overview - adjusted earnings. certain facilities within the neer wind and solar generation portfolio produce renewable energy credits (recs) and other environmental attributes which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts, or may be sold separately for the wind and solar generation not sold under long-term contracts. the purchasing party is solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes. while the majority of neer's revenue is derived from the output of its generation facilities, neer is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and fuel products and services to a variety of customers. in the full requirements service, typically, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day, at a fixed price, for a predetermined period of time, thereby assuming the risk 14 table of contents of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for neer. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. neer seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities. generation and other operations neer sells products associated with its own generation facilities (energy, capacity, recs and ancillary services) in competitive markets in regions where those facilities are located. customer transactions may be supplied from neer generation facilities or from purchases in the wholesale markets, or from a combination thereof. at december 31, 2015 , the locations of neer's generation facilities in north america are as follows: at december 31, 2015 , neer managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its generation projects in which it has an ownership interest. neer categorizes its portfolio in a number of different ways for different business purposes. see a listing of neer's generation facilities in item 2. properties - generation facilities. the following presentation details neer operations and fuel/technology mix, which nee commonly uses in communicating information about its business: contracted, merchant and other operations neer's portfolio of generation operations based on the presence/absence of long-term power sales agreements and other operations is described below. 15 table of contents contracted generation assets. contracted generation assets are generation facilities with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their capacity and/or energy output and certain wind assets where long-term power sales agreements are expected to be executed. at december 31, 2015 , neer had 14,317 mw of contracted generation assets, substantially all of which have long-term power sales agreements, representing approximately 66% of its total operating generation portfolio. essentially all of the output of these contracted generation assets were under power sales agreements, with a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 15 years, and the nuclear facilities have firm nuclear fuel-related contracts with expiration dates ranging from late february 2016 through 2032. see note 14 - contracts. of the total capacity of contracted generation assets, 10,571 mw is wind generation, 1,621 mw is nuclear generation and 1,121 mw is solar generation. the remaining 1,004 mw use fuels such as natural gas and oil. merchant generation assets. merchant generation assets are generation facilities that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their capacity and/or energy output, or, in the case of certain wind assets, are not expected to have long-term power sales agreements, and therefore require active marketing and hedging. at december 31, 2015 , neer's portfolio of merchant generation assets consists of 6,823 mw of owned wind, nuclear, natural gas, oil and solar generation facilities, including 846 mw of peak generation facilities. approximately 59% (based on net mw capability) of the natural gas-fueled merchant generation assets have natural gas transportation agreements to provide for fluctuating natural gas requirements. see neer fuel/technology mix - natural gas facilities below and note 14 - contracts. derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) are generally used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty, credit and operational risks. other operations. neer's operations also include the gas infrastructure business and the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses. the gas infrastructure business includes non-operating ownership interests in investments located in oil and gas shale formations primarily in the midwest and south regions of the u.s. neer continues to pursue in a selective way opportunities in the upstream (exploration and production) area when it believes the return potential is attractive and to gain insight into the natural gas industry. the gas infrastructure business also has investments in pipeline infrastructure assets located primarily in the south, southeast and northeast regions of the u.s. during 2015, neer, through nep, acquired the texas pipeline business, including pipelines with a total existing capacity of approximately 4 bcf per day, of which 3 bcf per day is contracted with firm ship-or-pay contracts that have a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 16 years as of december 31, 2015. in addition, subsidiaries of neer are pursuing regulatory approvals to move forward with three natural gas pipeline projects either directly or through joint venture investments. see natural gas pipelines for a description of the natural gas pipelines. see neer customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading for a description of the customer supply and propriety power and gas trading businesses. neer fuel/technology mix neer's power generation is produced using a variety of fuel sources as further described below. 16 table of contents neer's power generation in terms of mwh produced for the year ended december 31, 2015 by fuel type is as follows: wind facilities at december 31, 2015 , neer had ownership interests in wind generation facilities with a total net generating capacity of 12,414 mw. neer operates all of these wind facilities, which are located in 19 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada. during 2015, neer added approximately 1,031 mw of new u.s. wind generation and 176 mw of new canadian wind generation, and sold, decommissioned or dismantled wind facilities with generating capacity totaling 220 mw. neer expects to add new contracted wind generation of approximately 1,400 mw in 2016. see policy incentives for renewable energy projects below for additional discussion of neer's expectations regarding wind development and construction. solar facilities at december 31, 2015 , neer had ownership interests in pv and solar thermal facilities with a total net generating capacity of 1,026 mw, including approximately 285 mw added in 2015. neer operates the majority of these solar facilities, which are located in 4 states in the u.s. and 1 province in canada. neer expects to add new contracted solar generation of approximately 1,100 mw in 2016. in addition, neer and its affiliates own solar thermal facilities with generating capacity of 99.8 mw in spain (spain solar projects). see note 14 - spain solar projects for developments that impact the spain solar projects. natural gas facilities at december 31, 2015 , neer had ownership interests in and operated natural gas facilities with a total net generating capacity of 4,083 mw. approximately 1,004 mw of this net generating capacity is from contracted natural gas assets located throughout the northeastern u.s. in november 2015, a subsidiary of neer entered into an agreement to sell its ownership interest in its merchant natural gas generation facilities located in texas, which have a total generating capacity of 2,884 mw at december 31, 2015. the transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2016, pending the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. 17 table of contents nuclear facilities at december 31, 2015 , neer owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,721 mw. facility location mw portfolio category operating license expiration dates seabrook new hampshire 1,100 merchant 2030 (a) duane arnold iowa 431 contracted (b) 2034 point beach unit no. 1 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) 2030 point beach unit no. 2 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) 2033 ______________________ (a) in 2010, neer filed an application with the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years, which license renewal is dependent on nrc regulatory approvals. (b) neer sells all of its share of the output of duane arnold under a long-term contract expiring in december 2025. (c) neer sells all of the output of point beach units nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through their current operating license expiration dates. neer's nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from late february 2016 through 2032. see note 14 - contracts. neer is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly-owned units. nrc regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. nuclear unit scheduled refueling outages. neer's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. the following table summarizes each unit's next scheduled refueling outage: facility next scheduled refueling outage seabrook april 2017 duane arnold october 2016 point beach unit no. 1 march 2016 point beach unit no. 2 march 2017 spent nuclear fuel. neer's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. as owners and operators of nuclear facilities, certain subsidiaries of neer are subject to the nuclear waste policy act and are parties to the spent fuel settlement agreement described in fpl - fpl sources of generation - nuclear operations. oil facilities at december 31, 2015 , neer had 796 mw of oil-fired generation facilities located in maine. policy incentives for renewable energy projects u.s. federal, state and local governments have established various incentives to support the development of renewable energy projects. these incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, ptcs, itcs, cash grants, tax abatements and rps programs. wind and solar projects qualify for the u.s. federal modified accelerated cost recovery system depreciation schedule. this schedule allows a taxpayer to recognize the depreciation of tangible property on a five-year basis even though the useful life of such property is generally greater than five years. the ptc currently provides an income tax credit for the production of electricity from utility-scale wind turbines for the first ten years of commercial operation. this incentive was created under the energy policy act of 1992 and has been extended several times. most recently, in december 2015, the ptc was extended for five years, subject to the phase down schedule in the table below. the internal revenue service (irs) previously issued guidance related to which projects will qualify for the ptc including, among other things, criteria for the beginning of construction of a project and the continuous program of construction or the continuous efforts to advance the project to completion. the irs has not updated its guidance for the december 2015 extension. alternatively, wind project developers can choose to receive a 30% itc, in lieu of the ptc, subject to the phase down schedule in the table below. 18 table of contents solar project developers are also eligible to receive a 30% itc for new solar projects, or can elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the u.s. department of treasury for the value of the 30% itc (convertible itc) for qualifying solar projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects are placed in service before 2017. in december 2015, the 30% itc for new solar projects was extended, subject to the following phase down schedule. year construction of project begins 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 ptc (a) 100 % 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % - - - wind itc 30 % 30 % 24 % 18 % 12 % - - - solar itc (b) 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % 26 % 22 % 10 % ______________________ (a) percentage of the full ptc available for wind projects that begin construction during the applicable year. (b) itc is limited to 10% for projects not placed in service before january 1, 2024. other countries, including canada and spain, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. the feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology. natural gas pipelines at december 31, 2015, neer had approximately $2.5 billion invested in the following natural gas pipelines: miles of pipeline pipeline location/route neer's ownership total capacity (per day) actual/expected in-service dates operational: texas pipelines (a) 542 south texas 72.98% (b) 4.05 bcf 1950 - 2014 in development or under construction: sabal trail (c) 515 southwestern alabama to central florida 33% 0.83 bcf - 1.075 bcf mid-2017 - mid-2021 florida southeast connection (c) 126 central florida to martin county, florida 100% 0.64 bcf mid-2017 mountain valley pipeline (d) 301 marcellus and utica shale regions to markets in the mid-atlantic and southeast regions of the u.s. 35% (e) 2.00 bcf end of 2018 ______________________ (a) represents a portfolio of seven natural gas pipelines; of which a third party owns a 10% interest in a 120 mile pipeline with a daily capacity of approximately 2.3 bcf. there are planned expansion projects for the three largest pipelines in the portfolio (which represent approximately 90% of total capacity per day of the texas pipelines) that, if completed, are expected to provide an additional 1.5 bcf of capacity per day by the end of 2017. (b) represents neer's interest in the texas pipelines. (c) construction of the natural gas pipelines is subject to certain conditions. see fpl - fpl sources of generation - fossil operations and note 14 - commitments and - contracts. (d) construction of the natural gas pipeline is subject to certain conditions, including ferc approval. see note 14 - commitments. (e) represents expected ownership depending on the ultimate size and scope of the natural gas pipeline project. neer customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading neer's customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses engage in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, provide commodities-related products to customers and include the operations of a retail electricity provider. pmi, a subsidiary of neer, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as electricity, natural gas and oil. pmi sells the output from neer's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures the fossil fuel for use by neer's generation fleet. one of its primary roles is to manage the commodity risk of neer's portfolio. pmi uses derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of neer's power generation and gas infrastructure production assets. pmi also markets and trades energy-related commodity products and provides a wide range of electricity and fuel commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to customers. pmi's customer supply business provides full energy and capacity requirements to customers. the results of the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading activities are included in neer's operating results. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity, note 1 - energy trading and note 3. neer regulation the energy markets in which neer operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, as the case may be, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. 19 table of contents at december 31, 2015 , neer had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the u.s. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the public utility holding company act of 2005, which represent approximately 99% of neer's net generating capacity in the u.s. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. neer's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, fossil fuels, solar and nuclear facilities. essentially all of the remaining 1% of neer's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under the purpa. neer's qualifying facilities generate electricity primarily from wind, solar and fossil fuels. qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the federal power act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. while projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. additionally, most of the neer facilities located in the u.s. are subject to ferc regulations and market rules, the nerc's mandatory reliability standards and all of its facilities are subject to environmental laws and the epa's environmental regulations, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. see fpl - fpl regulation for additional discussion of ferc, nerc, nrc and epa regulations. with the exception of facilities located in ercot, the ferc has jurisdiction over various aspects of neer's business in the u.s., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas projects and major electricity policy initiatives. the puct has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over neer facilities located in ercot. neer and its affiliates are also subject to federal and provincial or regional regulations in canada and spain related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. in canada, activities related to owning and operating wind and solar projects and participating in wholesale and retail energy markets are regulated at the provincial level. in ontario, for example, electricity generation facilities must be licensed by the ontario energy board and may also be required to complete registrations and maintain market participant status with the independent electricity system operator, in which case they must agree to be bound by and comply with the provisions of the market rules for the ontario electricity market as well as the mandatory reliability standards of the nerc. neer is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues related to renewable energy resources as described in the nee environmental matters section below. in order to better anticipate potential regulatory changes, neer continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. neer employees neer and its subsidiaries had approximately 5,000 employees at december 31, 2015 . certain subsidiaries of neer have collective bargaining agreements with the ibew, the utility workers union of america, the security police and fire professionals of america and the international union of operating engineers, which collectively represent approximately 18% of neer's employees. the majority of the collective bargaining agreements have three-year terms and expire between september 2016 and 2019. iii. other nee operating subsidiaries corporate and other represents other business activities, primarily neet and fpl fibernet. see note 15. neet neet, a wholly owned subsidiary of neech, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. through its subsidiaries, neet owns and operates rate-regulated transmission facilities, the largest of which is owned by lone star, and is pursuing opportunities to develop, build and operate new transmission facilities throughout north america. in 2013, an entity in which an affiliate of neet has a joint venture investment was selected to complete development work for a 250-mile transmission line in northwestern ontario, canada. once development is complete, subject to ontario energy board approval, this entity is expected to construct, own and operate the new transmission line that is projected to begin service in 2020. in 2015, a wholly owned subsidiary of neet was awarded the rights to develop, construct, own and operate two transmission support projects in california, which projects, subject to certain regulatory approvals, are expected to begin service in 2017 and 2019, respectively. lone star lone star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in texas, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware. lone star owns and operates approximately 330 miles of 345 kilovolt (kv) transmission lines and other associated facilities. lone star is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the puct, the ercot, the nerc and the epa, as well as limited regulations of the ferc. see fpl - fpl regulation for further discussion of ferc, nerc and epa regulations and nee environmental matters. the puct has jurisdiction over a wide range of lone star's business activities, including, among others, rates charged to customers and certain aspects of the operation of transmission systems. the 20 table of contents puct sets rates at a level that allows lone star the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to lone star's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. in 2014, the puct approved a stipulation and settlement between lone star and all intervenors relating to lone star's base rate petition. the stipulation and settlement provides for an annual revenue requirement of approximately $102 million based on a $694 million rate base, a regulatory equity ratio of 45%, an allowed regulatory roe of 9.6% and certain operating expenses. fpl fibernet fpl fibernet conducts its business through two separate wholly owned subsidiaries of neech. one subsidiary was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of nee's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support fpl operations and the other was formed in 2011 to hold fiber-optic network assets which were acquired. both subsidiaries are limited liability companies organized under the laws of delaware. fpl fibernet leases fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to fpl and other customers, primarily telephone, wireless, and internet companies. fpl fibernet's networks cover most of the metropolitan areas in florida and several in texas. fpl fibernet also has a long-haul network providing bandwidth at wholesale rates. the long-haul network connects major cities in florida and texas with additional connectivity to the eastern and south central u.s. at december 31, 2015 , fpl fibernet's network consisted of approximately 9,230 route miles. fpl fibernet is subject to regulation by the federal communications commission which has jurisdiction over wire and wireless communication networks and by the public utility commissions in the states in which it provides intrastate telecommunication services. nee environmental matters nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. the following is a discussion of certain existing and emerging federal and state initiatives and rules, some of which could potentially have a material effect (either positive or negative) on nee and its subsidiaries. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. clean water act section 316(b). in 2014, the epa issued its final rule under section 316(b) of the clean water act outlining the process and framework for determining the best technology available to reduce the impact on aquatic organisms from once-through cooling water intake systems. under the rule, potentially eleven of fpl's facilities and five of neer's facilities may be required to add additional controls and/or make operational changes to comply. nee and fpl are analyzing the final rule, and the ultimate impacts of the rule will evolve over years of site specific studies, permit evaluations and negotiations. therefore, the impact of any final compliance obligations is uncertain at this time. several groups filed petitions for review of the epa's final rule and the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit is scheduled to hear the case in august 2016. avian/bat regulations and wind turbine siting guidelines. fpl, neer and neet are subject to numerous environmental regulations and guidelines related to threatened and endangered species and their habitats, as well as avian and bat species, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. the facilities most significantly affected are wind and solar facilities and transmission and distribution lines. the environmental laws in the u.s., including, among others, the endangered species act, the migratory bird treaty act, and the bald and golden eagle protection act and similar environmental laws in canada provide for the protection of migratory birds, eagles and bats and endangered species of birds and bats and their habitats. regulations have been adopted under some of these laws that contain provisions that allow the owner/operator of a facility to apply for a permit to undertake specific activities, including those associated with certain siting decisions, construction activities and operations. in addition to regulations, voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines established by the u.s. fish and wildlife service set forth siting, monitoring and coordination protocols that are designed to support wind development in the u.s. while also protecting both birds and bats and their habitats. these guidelines include provisions for specific monitoring and study conditions which need to be met in order for projects to be in adherence with these voluntary guidelines. complying with these environmental regulations and adhering to the provisions set forth in the voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines could result in additional costs or reduced revenues at existing and new wind and solar facilities and transmission and distribution facilities at fpl, neer and neet and, in the case of environmental regulations, failure to comply could result in fines and penalties. regulation of ghg emissions. the u.s. congress and certain states and regions, as well as the government of canada and its provinces, have taken and continue to take certain actions, such as finalizing regulation or setting targets or goals, regarding the reduction of ghg emissions and the increase of renewable energy generation. based on the most recent reference data available from government sources, nee is among the lowest emitters, among electric generators, of ghg in the u.s. measured by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of co 2 per mwh of generation. in october 2015, the epa's final rule for new fossil fuel-fired electric generation units regulated under section 111(b) of the clean air act became effective, which is not expected to have an impact on nee or fpl. in december 2015, the epa's final rule under section 111(d) of the clean air act (clean power plan) to reduce carbon emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generation units became effective. the clean power plan sets emission rate targets for each state and requires each state to develop a compliance plan by the fall of 2016 to meet these emissions targets, with the option for states to apply for an extension to 2018. the clean power plan indicates that compliance will start in 2022 with both interim and final target dates, 21 table of contents each with specific emissions reductions. nee and fpl are analyzing the clean power plan and the impact of any final compliance obligations cannot be determined until the state plans have been finalized. numerous parties have challenged the clean power plan and, in february 2016, the u.s. supreme court issued an order staying implementation of the clean power plan pending resolution of legal challenges to the rule. the d.c. circuit is scheduled to hear oral arguments on june 2, 2016. neer's plants operate in certain states and regions in the u.s. and provinces in canada that continue to consider and implement regulatory proposals to reduce ghg emissions in addition to what is expected to be required for the clean power plan. rps, currently in place in approximately 30 states and 3 territories and the district of columbia, require electricity providers in the state, territory or district to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources. these standards vary, but the majority include requirements to meet 20% to 30% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025. approximately 8 other states in the u.s. have set renewable energy goals as well. many canadian provinces have enacted renewable energy goals and targets to reduce ghg emissions from historic levels which include various milestones and compliance mechanisms. neer's plants operate in 23 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada that have a rps or renewable energy goals and neer believes that these standards and goals, as well as any final compliance obligations under the clean power plan, will create incremental demand for renewable energy in the future. other ghg reduction initiatives including, among others, the regional greenhouse gas initiative and the california greenhouse gas regulation aim to reduce emissions through a variety of programs and under varying timelines. based on its clean generation portfolio, neer expects to continue experiencing a positive impact on earnings as a result of these ghg reduction initiatives. additionally, these initiatives provide neer opportunities with regards to wind and solar development as well as favorable energy pricing. waters of the u.s. in june 2015, the epa issued a final rule redefining "waters of the u.s." under the clean water act to expand the definition of waters of the u.s. to encompass previously unregulated waters, such as intermittent streams, non-navigable tributaries, isolated wetlands and adjacent other waters, which rule was subsequently challenged by various parties. in october 2015, the u.s. court of appeals for the sixth circuit issued a stay of the epa's final rule pending further court proceedings to address which court has jurisdiction as well as challenges to the rule. the ultimate resolution of the issues surrounding this final rule is uncertain at this time. website access to sec filings nee and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on nee's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information and materials available on nee's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined form 10-k. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. 22 table of contents executive officers of nee (a) name age position effective date miguel arechabala 55 executive vice president, power generation division of nee executive vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2014 deborah h. caplan 53 executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of nee executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of fpl april 15, 2013 paul i. cutler 56 treasurer of nee treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of nee february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 moray p. dewhurst 60 vice chairman and chief financial officer, and executive vice president - finance of nee executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl october 5, 2011 chris n. froggatt 58 vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of nee february 27, 2010 joseph t. kelliher 55 executive vice president, federal regulatory affairs of nee may 18, 2009 manoochehr k. nazar 61 president nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of nee president nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of fpl may 23, 2014 may 30, 2014 armando pimentel, jr. 53 president and chief executive officer of neer october 5, 2011 james l. robo 53 chairman, president and chief executive officer of nee chairman of fpl december 13, 2013 may 2, 2012 charles e. sieving 43 executive vice president &amp; general counsel of nee executive vice president of fpl december 1, 2008 january 1, 2009 eric e. silagy 50 president and chief executive officer of fpl may 30, 2014 william l. yeager 57 executive vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain of nee executive vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain of fpl january 1, 2013 ______________________ (a) information is as of february 19, 2016 . executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his/her present position for five years or more and his/her employment history is continuous. mr. arechabala was president of nextera energy espa a, s.l., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of nee, from february 2010 to december 2013. ms. caplan was vice president and chief operating officer of fpl from may 2011 to april 2013 and vice president, integrated supply chain of nee and fpl from july 2005 to may 2011. mr. dewhurst has been vice chairman of nee since august 2009 and was chief of staff of nee from august 2009 to october 2011. mr. dewhurst has announced his intention to retire from nee and fpl in the spring of 2016. mr. nazar has been chief nuclear officer of nee and fpl since january 2010 and was executive vice president, nuclear division of nee and fpl from january 2010 to may 2014. mr. pimentel was chief financial officer of nee and fpl from may 2008 to october 2011 and executive vice president, finance of nee and fpl from february 2008 to october 2011. mr. robo has been president and chief executive officer of nee since july 2012. mr. robo was the chief executive officer of fpl from may 2012 to may 2014 and president and chief operating officer of nee from december 2006 to june 2012. mr. sieving was also assistant secretary of nee from may 2010 to may 2011. mr. silagy has been president of fpl since december 2011. mr. silagy was senior vice president, regulatory and state governmental affairs of fpl from may 2010 to december 2011. mr. yeager was vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain services of nee and fpl from october 2012 to december 2012 and vice president, integrated supply chain of nee and fpl from may 2011 to october 2012. from january 2005 to may 2011, mr. yeager was vice president, engineering and construction of fpl. 23 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to nee's and fpl's business the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of nee and fpl. the following is a description of important risks that may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl and may cause actual results of nee and fpl to differ substantially from those that nee or fpl currently expects or seeks. in that event, the market price for the securities of nee or fpl could decline. accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that nee and fpl file with the sec. the risks described below are not the only risks facing nee and fpl. additional risks and uncertainties may also materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. each of nee and fpl has disclosed the material risks known to it to affect its business at this time. however, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may in the future materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of nee and fpl. regulatory, legislative and legal risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. the operations of nee and fpl are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. this extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, nee's and fpl's industries, businesses, rates and cost structures, operation of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, natural gas, oil and other fuel transportation, processing and storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. in their business planning and in the management of their operations, nee and fpl must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. fpl is a regulated entity subject to the jurisdiction of the fpsc over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers, issuances of securities, and aspects of the siting, construction and operation of its generation plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that fpl is permitted to earn on invested capital. the regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in florida and elsewhere, limits fpl's ability to increase earnings. the regulatory process also does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels, or that fpl will be permitted to earn an acceptable return on capital investments it wishes to make. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. certain other subsidiaries of nee are regulated transmission utilities subject to the jurisdiction of their regulators and are subject to similar risks. regulatory decisions that are important to nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. the local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on fpsc decisions with negative consequences for fpl. these decisions may require, for example, fpl to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. certain other subsidiaries of nee are subject to similar risks. fpl's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the fpsc. the fpsc engages in an annual prudence review of fpl's use of derivative instruments in its risk management fuel procurement program and should it find any such use to be imprudent, the fpsc could deny cost recovery for such use by fpl. such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 24 table of contents any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support utility scale renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax incentives, rps, feed-in tariffs or the clean power plan, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer depends heavily on government policies that support utility scale renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which neer operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. the federal government, a majority of the 50 u.s. states and portions of canada and spain provide incentives, such as tax incentives, rps, feed-in tariffs or the clean power plan, that support or are designed to support the sale of energy from utility scale renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. as a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their policies that support renewable energy and consider actions that would make the policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives that support renewable energy, such as those reductions that have been enacted in spain and are applicable to neer's solar generation facilities in that country, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations, interpretations or other regulatory initiatives. nee's and fpl's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, new or revised laws, regulations, interpretations and other regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and regulation of environmental matters, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. changes in the nature of the regulation of nee's and fpl's business could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on nee and fpl, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. fpl has limited competition in the florida market for retail electricity customers. any changes in florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the florida retail electricity market, such as government incentives that facilitate the installation of solar generation facilities on residential or other rooftops at below cost, or would permit third-party sales of electricity, could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be no assurance that fpl will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer is subject to ferc rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. nee cannot predict the impact of changing ferc rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond nee's control. there can be no assurance that neer will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any other changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if the rules implementing the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) broaden the scope of its provisions regarding the regulation of otc financial derivatives and make certain provisions applicable to nee and fpl. the dodd-frank act, enacted into law in july 2010 provides for, among other things, substantially increased regulation of the otc derivatives market and futures contract markets. while the legislation is broad and detailed, there are still portions of the legislation that either require implementing rules to be adopted by federal governmental agencies or otherwise require further interpretive guidance. nee and fpl continue to monitor the development of rules related to the dodd-frank act and have taken steps to comply with those rules that affect their businesses. a number of rules have been finalized and are effective, but there are rules yet to be finalized and rules that have been finalized but may be amended in the future. 25 table of contents nee and fpl cannot predict the impact any proposed rules will have on their ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks or on otc derivatives markets as a whole, but they could potentially have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities. nee and fpl are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require nee and fpl to limit or eliminate certain operations. nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 , waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and rps, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new requirements, the current trend toward more stringent standards, and stricter or more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. for example, among other new, potential or pending changes are federal regulation of co 2 emissions under the clean power plan and state and federal regulation of the use of hydraulic fracturing or similar technologies to drill for natural gas and related compounds used by nee's gas infrastructure business. violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose nee and fpl to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. proceedings could include, for example, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements such as air, water and soil quality standards. nee's and fpl's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 and methane, from electric generation units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. although it is currently subject to a stay issued by the u.s. supreme court, the clean power plan is an example of such a new regulation at the federal level. the potential effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on nee's and fpl's electric generation units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. while nee's and fpl's electric generation units emit greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the u.s. electric generation sector, the results of operations of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state laws or regulations impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; make some of nee's and fpl's electric generation units uneconomical to operate in the long term; require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. there can be no assurance that nee or fpl would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. extensive federal regulation of the operations of nee and fpl exposes nee and fpl to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. nee and fpl are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on nee's and fpl's operations. additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. as an example, under the energy policy act of 2005, nee and fpl, as owners and operators of bulk-power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject nee and fpl to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if fpl or nee is found not to be in compliance with these standards, it may incur substantial monetary 26 table of contents penalties and other sanctions. both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in tax laws, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations, the financial condition and results of operations of nee and fpl, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. ultimate resolution of income tax matters may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings in which nee is involved or other future legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, class action lawsuits, may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. operational risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if nee and fpl do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. nee's and fpl's ability to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, native american and aboriginal groups, lessors, joint venture partners and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. if any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or otherwise be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may be available, and nee and fpl could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write off all or a portion of their investment in the project. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. nee and fpl own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generation and transmission facilities and natural gas transmission facilities. a key component of nee's and fpl's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. as part of these operations, nee and fpl must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. should nee or fpl be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on nee or fpl, nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased 27 table of contents expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements or other agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at higher prices. uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining nee's and fpl's facilities include, but are not limited to: risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, icing events, floods, earthquakes and droughts; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires, leaks or other major events, of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines; availability of replacement equipment; risks of property damage or human injury from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires, leaks or other events; availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; inability to identify, manage properly or mitigate equipment defects in nee's and fpl's facilities; use of new or unproven technology; risks associated with dependence on a specific type of fuel or fuel source, such as commodity price risk, availability of adequate fuel supply and transportation, and lack of available alternative fuel sources; increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply, shifting demand and regulatory changes; and insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities, as well as the need for energy-related commodities such as natural gas. customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of nee and fpl, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. a lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity or natural gas and other fuels may cause nee and fpl to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. in addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, icing events and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of fuel and water, and require nee and fpl to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. furthermore, nee's and fpl's physical plant could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to fpl, a change in sea level. fpl operates in the east and lower west coasts of florida, an area that historically has been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. a disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent nee and fpl from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. at fpl and other businesses of nee where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generation facilities, including, but not limited to, neer's wind and solar facilities. for example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generation facilities. because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, neer's results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and nee's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level 28 table of contents of available resources. to the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt nee's and fpl's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. there have been cyber attacks on energy infrastructure such as substations, gas pipelines and related assets in the past and there may be such attacks in the future. nee's and fpl's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or otherwise be materially adversely affected by, such activities. terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other similar events affecting nee's and fpl's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which nee and fpl rely, could harm nee's and fpl's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power, natural gas or other energy-related commodities by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generation, distribution or transmission facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. these events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), significant fines and penalties, and reputational damage, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair nee's and fpl's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). in addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. such events or actions may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. nee's and fpl's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to nee and fpl. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. if insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, nee or fpl may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. nee and fpl generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. for example, fpl is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but would instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the fpsc, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. a loss for which nee or fpl is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee invests in gas and oil producing and transmission assets through neer's gas infrastructure business. the gas infrastructure business is exposed to fluctuating market prices of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil and other energy commodities. a prolonged period of low gas and oil prices could impact neer's gas infrastructure business and cause neer to delay or cancel certain gas infrastructure projects and for certain existing projects to be impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. natural gas and oil prices are affected by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, political instability, conflicts, new discoveries, technological advances, economic conditions and actions by major oil-producing countries. there can be significant volatility in market prices for gas and oil, and price fluctuations could have a material effect on the financial performance of gas and oil producing and transmission assets. for example, in a low gas and oil price environment, neer would generate less revenue from its gas infrastructure investments in gas and oil producing properties, and as a result certain investments might become less profitable or incur losses. prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices could also result in oil and gas production and transmission projects to be delayed or cancelled or to experience lower returns, and for certain projects to become impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. if supply costs necessary to provide neer's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. the supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. neer may not be able to recover 29 table of contents all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, neer's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the commodity risks within its portfolios could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. nee's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures, based on factors both from within, or wholly or partially outside of, nee's control, may materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. sales of power on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis may cause nee's results of operations to be volatile. a portion of neer's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis. spot market sales are subject to market volatility, and the revenue generated from these sales is subject to fluctuation that may cause nee's results of operations to be volatile. neer and nee may not be able to manage volatility adequately, which could then have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of nee to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect nee's results of operations. nee is an active participant in energy markets. the liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in nee's ability to manage risks in these operations. over the past several years, other market participants have ceased or significantly reduced their activities in energy markets as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to, government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. nee and fpl have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. nee and fpl are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks, including, without limitation, employee misconduct. if such procedures and tools are not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, nee's and fpl's risk management tools associated with their hedging and trading procedures may not protect against significant losses. nee's and fpl's risk management tools and metrics associated with their hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, nee and fpl are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against material adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, fpl's and neer's ability to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. fpl and neer depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond fpl's and neer's control (such as severe weather or a generation or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt the ability of fpl and neer to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. nee and fpl are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, 30 table of contents may adversely affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with nee and fpl. for example, the prolonged downturn in oil and natural gas prices has adversely affected the financial stability of a number of enterprises in the energy industry, including some with which nee does business. if any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, nee and fpl may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in material financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. if a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, nee and fpl may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if nee or fpl is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. nee and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the otc markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for nee to engage in trading and marketing activities. any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. similarly, any requirement for fpl or nee to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. these risks may be increased during periods of adverse market or economic conditions affecting the industries in which nee participates. nee and fpl are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite nee's and fpl's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. if nee's or fpl's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised and nee and fpl could be unable to fulfill critical business functions. nee's and fpl's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. due to the size, scope, complexity and geographical reach of nee's and fpl's business, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process information is critical and challenging. nee's and fpl's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, their control, such as operator error, severe weather or terrorist activities. any such failure or disabling event could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues and the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. nee and fpl also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. nee's and fpl's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in a material adverse impact to their reputation and/or the results of operations of the retail business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. if a significant breach occurred, the reputation of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. nee and fpl would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or nee and fpl could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. 31 table of contents nee and fpl could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in otc markets. nee and fpl execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the otc markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. transactions executed in otc markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. as a result, nee and fpl may not be able to execute desired otc transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment and use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity. from time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting nee and fpl. adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from nee's and fpl's business. addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of nee and fpl, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with their respective regulators. it may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. the direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in florida. fpl must negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of fpl's revenues. if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and fpl may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. increasing costs associated with health care plans may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's results of operations. the costs of providing health care benefits to employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years. nee and fpl anticipate that their employee benefit costs, including, but not limited to, costs related to health care plans for employees and former employees, will continue to rise. the increasing costs and funding requirements associated with nee's and fpl's health care plans may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be negatively affected by the lack of a qualified workforce or the loss or retirement of key employees. nee and fpl may not be able to service customers, grow their business or generally meet their other business plan goals effectively and profitably if they do not attract and retain a qualified workforce. additionally, the loss or retirement of key executives and other employees may materially adversely affect service and productivity and contribute to higher training and safety costs. over the next several years, a significant portion of nee's and fpl's workforce, including, but not limited to, many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the nuclear generation facilities and electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire. such highly skilled individuals may not be able to be replaced quickly due to the technically complex work they perform. if a significant amount of such workers retire and are not replaced, the subsequent loss in productivity and increased recruiting and training costs could result in a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these consequences could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 32 table of contents nee's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. nee is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry in general. in addition, nee may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. nep's acquisitions may not be completed and, even if completed, nee may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee may not realize the anticipated benefits from the texas pipeline business. although nep has made a number of acquisitions of wind and solar generation projects, the texas pipeline business is the first third party acquisition by nep and is nep's first acquisition of natural gas pipeline assets. in the future nep may make additional acquisitions of assets which are inherently risky and nee may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nuclear generation risks the construction, operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. nee and fpl maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in nee's and fpl's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. if nee or fpl is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of fpl, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. in the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, nee and fpl could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the price-anderson act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. in accordance with this act, nee maintains $ 375 million of private liability insurance per site, which is the maximum obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides up to $ 13.1 billion of liability insurance coverage per incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. under the secondary financial protection system, nee is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums of up to $ 1.0 billion ($ 509 million for fpl), plus any applicable taxes, per incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident, payable at a rate not to exceed $ 152 million ($ 76 million for fpl) per incident per year. such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require nee and fpl to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities. the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a nuclear generation facility, or to take both of these actions, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. any of the foregoing events could require nee and fpl to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. any serious nuclear incident occurring at a nee or fpl plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. an incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the nrc to impose 33 table of contents additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, or on certain types of nuclear generation units, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. the inability to operate any of neer's or fpl's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the operating licenses for nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities extend through at least 2030. if the facilities cannot be operated for any reason through the life of those operating licenses, nee or fpl may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. various hazards posed to nuclear generation facilities, along with increased public attention to and awareness of such hazards, could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs which are difficult or impossible to predict and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the threat of terrorist activity, as well as recent international events implicating the safety of nuclear facilities, could result in more stringent or complex measures to keep facilities safe from a variety of hazards, including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis, as well as terrorist or other criminal threats. this increased focus on safety could result in higher compliance costs which, at present, cannot be assessed with any measure of certainty and which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. if planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, nee's and fpl's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. in addition, outages may be scheduled, often in connection with a refueling outage, to replace equipment, to increase the generating capacity at a particular nuclear unit, or for other purposes, and those planned activities increase the time the unit is not in operation. in the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. liquidity, capital requirements and common stock risks disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of nee and fpl. nee and fpl rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets, including, but not limited to, the conditions of the most recent financial crises in the u.s. and abroad, could increase nee's and fpl's cost of capital. if nee or fpl is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. although nee's competitive energy subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific or other financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. the inability of nee's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, neech and nep and their respective subsidiaries, to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific or other financing for electric generation or other facilities or acquisitions on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by nee and/or neech in the future. the inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific or other financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. such an occurrence also could result in nee expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. any of these actions could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for nee or its subsidiaries. 34 table of contents nee's, neech's and fpl's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of nee and fpl to grow their business, and increase interest costs. the inability of nee, neech and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could materially adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact nee's and fpl's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. in addition, certain agreements and guarantee arrangements would require posting of additional collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade. some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, nee's overall business mix and political, legislative and regulatory actions. there can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of nee, neech and fpl will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. nee's and fpl's liquidity may be impaired if their credit providers are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. the inability of nee's, neech's and fpl's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require nee, neech or fpl, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity. poor market performance and other economic factors could affect nee's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and prospects. nee sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of nee and its subsidiaries. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. nee's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since, as interest rates decrease the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of nee's and fpl's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations. nee and fpl are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. certain of nee's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may materially adversely affect nee's liquidity, financial results and results of operations. nee holds other investments where changes in the fair value affect nee's financial results. in some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. this type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. a sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to nee. nee is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. substantially all of nee's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. nee's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to nee. nee's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide nee with funds for its payment obligations. the subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can provide nee with funds. in addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, nee's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. the dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. the future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of nee's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. 35 table of contents nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if nee is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. nee guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than fpl, through guarantee agreements with neech. these guarantees may require nee to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when nee is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect nee's ability to meet its financial obligations or to pay dividends. nep may not be able to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to consummate future acquisitions and on the value of nee's limited partner interest in nep opco. nee understands that nep expects to finance acquisitions of clean energy projects partially or wholly through the issuance of additional common units. nep needs to be able to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. nep's ability to access the equity capital markets is dependent on, among other factors, the overall state of the capital markets and investor appetite for investment in clean energy projects in general and nep's common units in particular. an inability to obtain equity financing on commercially reasonable terms could limit nep's ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy in the manner currently contemplated. furthermore there may not be sufficient availability under nep opco's subsidiaries' revolving credit facility or other financing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. if debt financing is available, it may be available only on terms that could significantly increase nep's interest expense, impose additional or more restrictive covenants and reduce cash distributions to its unitholders. an inability to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms could significantly limit nep's ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy. nep's inability to effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on nep's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders. through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, nee owns a limited partner interest in nep opco. nep's inability to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms and effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on nep's ability to grow its cash distributions to its unitholders, including nee, and on the value of nee's limited partnership interest in nep opco. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of nee's common stock. the market price and trading volume of nee's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of nee and its subsidiaries. as a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of nee's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity. 70 table of contentsrisk factors 22 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on nee's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause nee's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of nee and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and nee and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nee is one of the largest electric power companies in north america and, through its subsidiary neer and its affiliated entities, is the largest generator of renewable energy from the wind and sun in the world based on 2016 mwh produced. nee also owns and/or operates generation, transmission and distribution facilities to support its services to retail and wholesale customers, and has investments in gas infrastructure assets. nee also provides risk management services related to power and gas consumption related to its own generation assets and for a limited number of wholesale customers in selected markets. nee's business strategy has emphasized the development, acquisition and operation of renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired generation facilities in response to long-term federal policy trends supportive of zero and low air emissions sources of power. as of december 31, 2016 , nee's business included the following: approximately 45,900 mw of generating capacity with electric generation facilities located in 30 states in the u.s., 4 provinces in canada and in spain; approximately 16% of the installed base of u.s. wind power production capacity; approximately 11% of the installed base of u.s. universal solar power production capacity; one of the largest fleets of nuclear power stations in the u.s., with 8 reactors at 5 sites located in 4 states, representing approximately 6% of u.s. nuclear power electric generating capacity; a generation fleet with significantly lower rates of emissions of co 2 , so 2 and no x than the average rates of the u.s. electric power industry with approximately 98% of its 2016 generation, measured by mwh produced, coming from renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired facilities; approximately 800 substations and 76,700 miles of transmission and distribution lines; more than 5.4 million retail and wholesale electric customer accounts; and approximately 14,700 people employed, primarily in the u.s. nee was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida and conducts its operations principally through two wholly owned subsidiaries, fpl and neer. neech, another wholly owned subsidiary of nee, owns and provides funding for neer's and nee's operating subsidiaries, other than fpl and its subsidiaries. during 2014, nee formed nep to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows. see neer section below for further discussion of nep. when discussed in this combined form 10-k, nee's and neer's generating capacity as of december 31, 2016 includes approximately 971 mw associated with noncontrolling interests related to nep. nee's two principal businesses, fpl and neer, also constitute nee's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. see note 14 for certain financial information about these segments. nee seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors, as described in more detail in the following sections. nee's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both fpl and neer. management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities available to it; however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by fpl and neer is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise and recognizes that each business contributes to nee's credit profile in different ways. fpl and neer, as well as other nee subsidiaries, share common support functions with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses. nee and its subsidiaries continue to develop and implement enterprise wide initiatives focused mainly on improving productivity and reducing o&amp;m expenses (cost savings initiatives). in july 2016, nee announced a proposed merger (efh merger) under which a newly formed subsidiary of nee will acquire 100% of the equity of reorganized energy future holdings corp. (reorganized efh) and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect ownership of approximately 80% of the outstanding equity interests of oncor electric delivery company llc 4 table of contents (oncor), a regulated electric distribution and transmission business that operates the largest distribution and transmission system in texas. the merger agreement (efh merger agreement) provides that the consideration for the transaction funded by nee will be $9.796 billion, which will be paid almost all in cash, with the balance in shares of nee common stock. the amount of consideration will be subject to adjustment as provided in the efh merger agreement. in late october 2016, additional agreements were entered into with other parties that, when combined with the efh merger agreement, if completed, would result in nee owning 100% of oncor. the aggregate consideration to be paid by nee under these additional agreements will be approximately $2.4 billion and will be subject to adjustment as provided in the additional agreements. on february 17, 2017, the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware confirmed energy future holdings corp.'s eighth amended joint plan of reorganization. completion and actual closing dates of the efh merger and the other oncor-related transactions remain subject to, among other things, approval by the puct and receipt of a supplemental private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs). the puct hearings regarding the merger transactions were conducted the week of february 20, 2017. nee, efh and the other parties to the efh merger agreement, and the parties to the other oncor-related transaction agreements, have certain specified termination rights. nee expects the efh merger and the other oncor-related transactions to be completed in the first half of 2017. see note 7 - pending oncor-related transactions. in january 2017, a subsidiary of nee completed the sale of its fiber-optic telecommunications business (fpl fibernet) for net cash proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion, after repayment of $370 million of related long-term debt. see note 1 - assets and liabilities associated with assets held for sale. fpl fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925 and is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in florida. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. based on retail mwh sales. at december 31, 2016, fpl had approximately 26,000 mw of net generating capacity, 74,800 miles of transmission and distribution lines and 600 substations. fpl provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers. at december 31, 2016 , fpl served approximately 10 million people through approximately 4.9 million customer accounts. fpl's service territory, which covers most of the east and lower west coasts of florida, and plant locations as of december 31, 2016 were as follows (see sources of generation below): 5 table of contents customers and revenue fpl's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within florida. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues and customer accounts by customer class were as follows: for both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that fpl may charge are approved by regulatory bodies, by the fpsc in the case of retail customers, and by the ferc in the case of wholesale customers. in general, under u.s. and florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. since the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed, there can be no guarantee that fpl will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates. see fpl regulation below. fpl seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low-cost position, including the implementation of ideas generated from the cost savings initiatives discussed above. a common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the price of 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer. fpl's 2016 average bill for 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was the lowest among reporting electric utilities within florida and well below the july 2016 national average (the latest date for which this data is available) as indicated below: 6 table of contents franchise agreements and competition fpl's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and fpl has the right to offer electric service to residents. fpl currently holds 180 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2046. these franchise agreements cover approximately 88% of fpl's retail customer base in florida. fpl also provides service to 13 other municipalities and to 21 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility. fpl relies upon florida law for access to public rights of way. because any customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, fpl effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. as a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since fpl's cost of service is lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. changing technology, economic conditions and other factors could alter the favorable relative cost position that fpl currently enjoys; however, fpl seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of high reliability, low bills and excellent customer service. in addition to self-generation by residential, commercial and industrial customers, fpl also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources. in each of 2016, 2015 and 2014, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately five percent of fpl's total operating revenues. for the building of new steam and solar generating capacity of 75 mw or greater, the fpsc requires investor-owned electric utilities, including fpl, to issue an rfp except when the fpsc determines that an exception from the rfp process is in the public interest. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. 7 table of contents fpl sources of generation at december 31, 2016 , fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 26,836 mw, of which 26,017 mw were from fpl-owned facilities and approximately 819 mw were available through purchased power agreements, including 330 mw associated with a coal-fired generation facility located in indiantown, florida that fpl purchased in january 2017 (indiantown generation facility) (see note 13 - contracts). fpl owned and operated 33 units that used fossil fuels, primarily natural gas, and had joint ownership interests in 3 coal units with an aggregate generating capacity of 22,305 mw. in addition, fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated 4 nuclear units with generating capacity totaling 3,453 mw (see nuclear operations below) and 5 solar generation facilities with generating capacity totaling 259 mw (excluding 75 mw of non-incremental solar capability which is provided through a natural gas generation facility). fpl customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. fuel sources fpl relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generation facilities, the ability of some of its generation facilities to operate on both natural gas and oil, and on purchased power to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix in order to respond to market and industry developments. *oil is less than 1% *oil and solar are collectively less than 1% significant fuel contracts. as of december 31, 2016 , fpl had the following significant fuel contracts in place: fpl has firm transportation contracts for existing natural gas pipeline capacity with five different transportation suppliers, which provide for an aggregate maximum delivery quantity of 1,969,000 mmbtu/day with expiration dates ranging from 2017 to 2036. together, these contracts are expected to satisfy substantially all of the currently anticipated needs for natural gas transportation through mid-2017. to the extent desirable, fpl also purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from the five transportation suppliers. fpl has 25-year natural gas transportation agreements with each of sabal trail and florida southeast connection for a quantity of 400,000 mmbtu/day beginning in mid-2017 and increasing to 600,000 mmbtu/day in mid-2020. these new agreements, when combined with fpl's existing agreements, are expected to satisfy substantially all of fpl's natural gas transportation needs through at least 2020. fpl's firm commitments under the new agreements are contingent upon the occurrence of certain events, including the completion of construction of the pipeline system to be built by sabal trail and florida southeast connection. see neer - generation and other operations - other operations below and note 13 - contracts. fpl has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. fpl has an agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2018. fpl has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from late february 2017 through 2031. 8 table of contents nuclear operations at december 31, 2016 , fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units in florida with a total net generating capacity of 3,453 mw. fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. facility fpl's ownership (mw) beginning of current or next scheduled refueling outage operating license expiration dates st. lucie unit no. 1 981 march 2018 2036 st. lucie unit no. 2 840 february 2017 2043 turkey point unit no. 3 811 march 2017 2032 turkey point unit no. 4 821 october 2017 2033 nrc regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the applicable operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 commencing in 2043. fpl's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. projects to add additional capacity fpl is in the process of adding the following additional capacity during the term of the 2016 rate agreement (see fpl rate regulation - base rates - rates effective january 2017 through december 2020 below): an approximately 1,750 mw natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit in okeechobee county, florida (okeechobee clean energy center), with a planned in-service date of mid-2019; and up to 300 mw annually of new solar generation in each of 2017 through 2020. fpl energy marketing and trading fpl's energy marketing &amp; trading division (emt) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. prior to january 2017, emt had utilized derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. under the 2016 rate agreement that is effective beginning january 2017 and discussed below, emt will not enter into any new derivative instruments to manage its commodity price risk for the term of the 2016 rate agreement. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 3. fpl regulation fpl's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following: the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things; the ferc, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of generation, transmission and other facilities, transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce, proposals to build and operate interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things; the nerc, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the ferc, to ensure the reliability of the u.s. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts; the nrc, which has jurisdiction over the operation of nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders; and the epa, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws. the epa also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts. 9 table of contents fpl rate regulation the fpsc sets rates at a level that is intended to allow fpl the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to fpl's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. base rates . in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are established, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the fpsc's determination of fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that any regulatory roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings. proceedings can occur at the initiative of fpl or upon action by the fpsc. base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the fpsc. rates effective january 2017 through december 2020 - in december 2016, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2016 rate agreement). key elements of the 2016 rate agreement, which is effective from january 2017 through at least december 2020, include, among other things, the following: new retail base rates and charges were established resulting in the following increases in annualized retail base revenues: $400 million beginning january 1, 2017; $211 million beginning january 1, 2018; and $200 million when the okeechobee clean energy center achieves commercial operation, which is expected to occur in mid-2019. in addition, fpl is eligible to receive, subject to conditions specified in the 2016 rate agreement, base rate increases associated with the addition of up to 300 mw annually of new solar generation in each of 2017 through 2020 and may carry forward any unused mw to subsequent years during the term of the 2016 rate agreement. fpl will be required to demonstrate that any proposed solar facilities are cost effective and scheduled to be in service before december 31, 2021. fpl has agreed to an installed cost cap of $1,750 per kw. fpl's allowed regulatory roe is 10.55%, with a range of 9.60% to 11.60%. if fpl's earned regulatory roe falls below 9.60%, fpl may seek retail base rate relief. if the earned regulatory roe rises above 11.60%, any party other than fpl may seek a review of fpl's retail base rates. subject to certain conditions, fpl may amortize, over the term of the 2016 rate agreement, up to $1.0 billion of depreciation reserve surplus plus the reserve amount remaining under fpl's 2012 rate agreement discussed below (approximately $250 million), provided that in any year of the 2016 rate agreement, fpl must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.60% earned regulatory roe but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory roe in excess of 11.60%. future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. if storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, fpl may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover amounts above $400 million. in january 2017, the sierra club filed a notice of appeal challenging the fpsc's final order approving the 2016 rate agreement, which notice of appeal is pending before the florida supreme court. rates effective january 2013 through december 2016 - effective january 2013, pursuant to an fpsc final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement), new retail base rates and charges for fpl were established resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of $350 million on an annualized basis. the 2012 rate agreement, provided for, among other things, the following: a regulatory roe of 10.50% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points; an increase in annualized base revenue requirements as each of three fpl modernized power plants became operational in april 2013, april 2014 and april 2016; the continuation of cost recovery through the capacity clause (reported as retail base revenues) for a generating unit which was placed in service in may 2011 (beginning january 2017, under the 2016 rate agreement, cost recovery will be through base rates); subject to certain conditions, the right to reduce depreciation expense up to $400 million (reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, fpl was required to amortize enough reserve to maintain an earned regulatory roe within the range of 9.50% to 11.50% (see below regarding a subsequent reduction in the reserve amount); an interim cost recovery mechanism for storm restoration costs (see note 1 - securitized storm-recovery costs, storm fund and storm reserve); and 10 table of contents an incentive mechanism whereby customers receive 100% of certain gains, including but not limited to gains from the purchase and sale of electricity and natural gas (including transportation and storage), up to a specified threshold; gains exceeding that specified threshold were shared by fpl and its customers. in august 2015, the fpsc approved a stipulation and settlement between the office of public counsel and fpl regarding issues relating to the ratemaking treatment for fpl's purchase of a 250 mw coal-fired generation facility located in jacksonville, florida (cedar bay generation facility), which fpl retired in december 2016. as part of this settlement, the amount of the reserve was reduced by $30 million to $370 million. cost recovery clauses . cost recovery clauses are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses. cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class. these cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. fpl recovers costs from customers through the following clauses: fuel - fuel costs and energy charges relating to purchased power agreements, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses in terms of operating revenues (see note 1 - rate regulation); capacity - primarily capacity payments to non-utility generators and other utilities and certain costs associated with the acquisition of the cedar bay generation facility (see note 1 - rate regulation); energy conservation - costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs; and environmental - certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 and costs associated with three of fpl's solar facilities. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. these costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. ferc the federal power act grants the ferc exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce. pursuant to the federal power act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the ferc which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of ferc-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. the federal power act also gives the ferc authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to establish and independently enforce mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system. see nerc below. electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the ferc. the ferc also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates. nerc the nerc has been certified by the ferc as the national electric reliability organization. the nerc's mandate is to ensure the reliability and security of the north american bulk-power system through the establishment and enforcement of reliability standards approved by ferc. the nerc's regional entities also enforce reliability standards approved by the ferc. fpl is subject to these reliability standards and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them. fpl environmental regulation fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the nee environmental matters section below. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. fpl employees fpl had approximately 8,900 employees at december 31, 2016 . approximately 34% of the employees are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2017. neer neer, a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware, was formed in 1998 to aggregate nee's competitive energy businesses. neer is a diversified clean energy company with a business strategy that emphasizes the development, acquisition and operation of long-term contracted assets with a focus on renewable projects. through its subsidiaries, neer currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generation facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the u.s., as well 11 table of contents as in canada and spain. see note 14 for information on revenues from foreign sources and long lived assets located in foreign countries. neer, with approximately 19,882 mw of generating capacity at december 31, 2016 , is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with approximately 18,862 mw of generating capacity across 29 states, and has 920 mw of generating capacity in 4 canadian provinces and 99.8 mw of generating capacity in spain. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. neer is the largest generator in the world of electric power from wind and universal solar energy projects based on 2016 mwh produced. neer also owned and operated approximately 200 substations and 1,240 circuit miles of transmission lines at december 31, 2016 . neer also engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, to hedge the production from its generation assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements. these contracts primarily include power and gas commodities and their related products, as well as provide full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offer customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers. in addition, neer participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production primarily through non-operating ownership interests, and in pipeline infrastructure development, construction, management and operations, through either wholly owned subsidiaries or noncontrolling or joint venture interests, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business. neer also hedges the expected output from its gas infrastructure production assets to protect against price movements. as discussed in the overview above, during 2014, nep was formed to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows through a limited partner interest in nep opco. through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, nee owns 101,440,000 common units of nep opco representing a noncontrolling interest in nep's operating projects of approximately 65.2% as of december 31, 2016 . nee owns a controlling general partner interest in nep and consolidates nep for financial reporting purposes. see note 1 - nextera energy partners, lp. as of december 31, 2016 , nep, through the combination of neer's contribution of energy projects to nep opco in connection with nep's ipo in july 2014 and the acquisition of additional energy projects from neer in 2015 and 2016, owns, or has an interest in, a portfolio of 22 wind and solar projects with generating capacity totaling approximately 2,787 mw and long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets as discussed below. in addition in 2015, nep opco issued 2 million nep opco class b units to neer in exchange for an approximately 50% ownership interest in three solar projects with a total generating capacity of 277 mw. neer, as holder of the class b units, will retain 100% of the economic interests if, and until, neer offers to sell the economic interests to nep and nep accepts such offer. nep opco has a right of first offer for certain of neer's assets (rofo assets) if neer should seek to sell the assets. the rofo assets remaining as of december 31, 2016 , include contracted wind and solar projects with a combined capacity of approximately 1,076 mw. in 2015, nep completed the acquisition of the membership interests in net holdings management, llc (texas pipeline business), a developer, owner and operator of a portfolio of seven intrastate long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets located in texas (texas pipelines). see generation and other operations - contracted, merchant and other operations - other operations below. 12 table of contents generation and other operations neer sells products associated with its own generation facilities (energy, capacity, renewable energy credits (recs) and ancillary services) in competitive markets in regions where those facilities are located. customer transactions may be supplied from neer generation facilities or from purchases in the wholesale markets, or from a combination thereof. see markets and competition below. at december 31, 2016 , neer managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its generation projects and all of its natural gas pipeline assets in which it has an ownership interest. at december 31, 2016 , the locations of neer's generation facilities and natural gas pipeline assets in north america were as follows: 13 table of contents contracted, merchant and other operations neer's portfolio of generation operations based on the presence/absence of long-term power sales agreements and other operations was as follows: *solar is less than 1% contracted generation assets. contracted generation assets are generation facilities with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their capacity and/or energy output. information related to contracted generation assets as of december 31, 2016 was as follows: represented approximately 15,994 mw of generating capacity; weighted average remaining contract term of approximately 17 years, based on forecasted contributions to earnings; and contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from late february 2017 through 2032 (see note 13 - contracts). 14 table of contents merchant generation assets. merchant generation assets are generation facilities that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their capacity and/or energy output and therefore require active marketing and hedging. information related to merchant generation assets as of december 31, 2016 was as follows: represented approximately 3,888 mw of generating capacity, including 781 mw of oil-fired peak generation facilities; primarily located in texas and the northeast regions of the u.s.; contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from august 2017 through 2029 (see note 13 - contracts); and utilize swaps, options, futures and forwards to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. other operations. gas infrastructure business - at december 31, 2016, neer had approximately $3.5 billion invested in the natural gas pipelines discussed below and ownership interests in investments located in oil and gas shale formations primarily in the midwest and south regions of the u.s. miles of pipeline pipeline location/route neer's ownership total capacity (per day) actual/expected in-service dates operational: texas pipelines (a) 542 south texas 61.6% 4.05 bcf 1950 - 2014 under construction or in development: sabal trail (b) 515 southwestern alabama to central florida 42.5% 0.83 bcf - 1.075 bcf mid-2017 - mid-2021 florida southeast connection (b) 126 central florida to martin county, florida 100% 0.64 bcf mid-2017 mountain valley pipeline (c) 301 marcellus and utica shale regions to markets in the mid-atlantic and southeast regions of the u.s. 31% 2.00 bcf end of 2018 ______________________ (a) a portfolio of seven natural gas pipelines, of which a third party owns a 10% interest in a 120 mile pipeline with a daily capacity of approximately 2.3 bcf. the pipelines have a total existing capacity of approximately 4 bcf per day, of which 3 bcf per day is contracted with firm ship-or-pay contracts that have a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 14 years. (b) see fpl - fpl sources of generation - fuel sources - significant fuel contracts and note 13 - commitments and - contracts. (c) construction of the natural gas pipeline is subject to certain conditions, including ferc approval. see note 13 - commitments. customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading - neer provides commodities-related products to customers, engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities and includes the operations of a retail electricity provider. through its subsidiary pmi, neer: manages risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and optimizes the value of neer's power generation and gas infrastructure production assets through the use of swaps, options, futures and forwards; sells output from neer's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures fossil fuel for use by neer's generation fleet; provides full energy and capacity requirements to customers; and markets and trades energy-related commodity products and provides a wide range of electricity and fuel commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to customers. 15 table of contents neer fuel/technology mix neer owns and operates the majority of its generation facilities, which utilize the following mix of fuel sources: *oil is less than 1% wind facilities ownership interests in and operated a total net generating capacity of 13,852 mw at december 31, 2016 ; located in 20 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada; approximately 12,008 mw is from contracted wind assets located primarily throughout the west and midwest regions of the u.s. and canada; approximately 1,844 mw is from merchant wind assets located in texas; added approximately 1,465 mw in the u.s. in 2016; and expects to add new contracted wind generation of approximately 2,400 to 4,100 mw and approximately 1,600 mw of additional repowering generation within the existing u.s. wind portfolio in 2017 to 2018 (see policy incentives for renewable energy projects below for additional discussion of neer's expectations regarding wind development, construction and retrofitting). solar facilities ownership interests in and operated the majority of pv and solar thermal facilities with a total net generating capacity of 2,108 mw at december 31, 2016 ; located in 11 states in the u.s., 1 province in canada and 1 province in spain; essentially all mw is from contracted solar facilities located primarily throughout the west region of the u.s.; added approximately 980 mw in the u.s. in 2016; and expects to add new contracted solar generation of approximately 400 to 1,300 mw in 2017 to 2018. fossil facilities ownership interests in and operated natural gas generation facilities with a total net generating capacity of 420 mw at december 31, 2016 ; approximately 262 mw is contracted and 158 mw is merchant; located in 3 states in the northeast region of the u.s.; completed the sales of its ownership interests in merchant natural gas generation facilities located in texas with a total generating capacity of 2,884 mw and in natural gas generation facilities located primarily in pennsylvania with a total generating capacity of 840 mw (see note 1 - assets and liabilities associated with assets held for sale); and owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated oil-fired peak generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 781 mw at december 31, 2016 primarily located in maine. nuclear facilities at december 31, 2016 , neer owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,721 mw. neer's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages 16 table of contents typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. facility location neer's ownership (mw) portfolio category next scheduled refueling outage operating license expiration dates seabrook new hampshire 1,100 merchant april 2017 2030 (a) duane arnold iowa 431 contracted (b) september 2018 2034 point beach unit no. 1 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) october 2017 2030 point beach unit no. 2 wisconsin 595 contracted (c) march 2017 2033 ______________________ (a) in 2010, neer filed an application with the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years, which license renewal is dependent on nrc regulatory approvals. (b) neer sells all of its share of the output of duane arnold under a long-term contract expiring in december 2025. (c) neer sells all of the output of point beach units nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through their current operating license expiration dates. neer is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly-owned units. nrc regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. neer's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. policy incentives for renewable energy projects u.s. federal, state and local governments have established various incentives to support the development of renewable energy projects. these incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, ptcs, itcs, cash grants, tax abatements and rps programs. wind and solar projects qualify as five-year property that is eligible to be depreciated under the u.s. federal modified accelerated cost recovery system (macrs). pursuant to macrs, wind and solar projects are fully depreciated for tax purposes over a five-year period even though the useful life of such projects is generally much longer than five years. owners of utility-scale wind facilities are eligible to claim an income tax credit (the ptc, or an itc in lieu of the ptc) upon initially achieving commercial operation. the ptc is determined based on the amount of electricity produced by the wind facility during the first ten years of commercial operation. this incentive was created under the energy policy act of 1992 and has been extended several times. alternatively, an itc equal to 30% of the cost of a wind facility may be claimed in lieu of the ptc. in december 2015, the ptc (and itc in lieu of ptc) for wind facilities was extended for five years, subject to the phase-down schedule in the table below. in order to qualify for the ptc (or itc in lieu of ptc), construction of a wind facility must begin before a specified date. the irs previously issued guidance setting forth two alternatives pursuant to which a taxpayer may begin construction on a wind facility and providing that the taxpayer must maintain a continuous program of construction or continuous efforts to advance the project to completion. in may 2016, the irs issued additional guidance relating to the december 2015 extension and phase-down of the ptc and itc for wind facilities. in general, this guidance modifies and extends the safe harbor for the continuous efforts and continuous construction requirements to four years compared to two years under the previous guidance. the safe harbor will generally be satisfied if the facility is placed in service no more than four calendar years after the calendar year in which construction of the facility began. the irs also confirmed that retrofitted wind facilities may re-qualify for ptcs or itcs pursuant to the 5% safe harbor for the begin construction requirement, as long as the cost basis of the new investment is at least 80% of the facility's total fair value. owners of solar projects are eligible to claim a 30% itc for new solar projects, or can elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the u.s. department of treasury for the value of the 30% itc (convertible itc) for qualifying solar projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects are placed in service before 2017. in december 2015, the 30% itc for new solar projects was extended, subject to the following phase-down schedule. year construction of project begins 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 ptc (a) 100 % 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % - - - wind itc 30 % 30 % 24 % 18 % 12 % - - - solar itc (b) 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % 26 % 22 % 10 % _________________________ (a) percentage of the full ptc available for wind projects that begin construction during the applicable year. (b) itc is limited to 10% for projects not placed in service before january 1, 2024. other countries, including canada and spain, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. the feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology. 17 table of contents markets and competition electricity markets in the u.s. and canada are regional and diverse in character. all are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. the nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region. generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, neer may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. neer's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities may also be constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing. the degree and nature of competition that neer faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets. during 2016, approximately 86% of neer's revenue was derived from wholesale electricity markets. wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. neer primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of neer's generation assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage reliable customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages. wholesale power generation is a regional business that is highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. as such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies neer competes with depending on the market. in wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services. in general, u.s. electricity markets encompass three classes of services: energy, capacity and ancillary services. energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services that relate to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves. the exact nature of these classes of services is defined in part by regional tariffs. not all regions have a capacity services class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region. rtos and isos exist throughout much of north america to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets. neer operates in all rto and iso jurisdictions. as of december 31, 2016 , neer also had operations of approximately 3,114 mws that fall within reliability regions that are not under the jurisdiction of an established rto or iso, including 2,519 mws within the western electricity coordinating council. although each rto and iso may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. neer has operations that fall within the following rtos and isos: 18 table of contents neer competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generation facilities, and, as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 80% of neer's generating capacity was committed under long-term contracts. where long-term contracts are not in effect, neer sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. in such cases, neer will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically of less than three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, may only protect a portion of the revenue that neer expects to derive from the associated generation facility and may not qualify for hedge accounting under gaap. contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under gaap are referred to as non-qualifying hedges for adjusted earnings purposes. see management's discussion - overview - adjusted earnings. certain facilities within the neer wind and solar generation portfolio produce recs and other environmental attributes which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts, or may be sold separately for the wind and solar generation not sold under long-term contracts. the purchasing party is solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes. while the majority of neer's revenue is derived from the output of its generation facilities, neer is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and fuel products and services to a variety of customers. in the full requirements service, typically, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day, at a fixed price, for a predetermined period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for neer. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. neer seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities. neer regulation the energy markets in which neer operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, as the case may be, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. at december 31, 2016 , neer had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the u.s. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the public utility holding company act of 2005, which represent approximately 99% of neer's net generating capacity in the u.s. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. neer's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, fossil fuels, solar and nuclear facilities. essentially all of the remaining 1% of neer's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under the purpa. neer's qualifying facilities generate electricity primarily from wind, solar and fossil fuels. qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the federal power act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. while projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. additionally, most of the neer facilities located in the u.s. are subject to ferc regulations and market rules and the nerc's mandatory reliability standards, all of its facilities are subject to environmental laws and the epa's environmental regulations, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. see fpl - fpl regulation for additional discussion of ferc, nerc, nrc and epa regulations. with the exception of facilities located in ercot, the ferc has jurisdiction over various aspects of neer's business in the u.s., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas projects and major electricity policy initiatives. the puct has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over neer facilities located in ercot. neer and its affiliates are also subject to federal and provincial or regional regulations in canada and spain related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. in canada, activities related to owning and operating wind and solar projects and participating in wholesale and retail energy markets are regulated at the provincial level. in ontario, for example, electricity generation facilities must be licensed by the ontario energy board and may also be required to complete registrations and maintain market participant status with the independent electricity system operator, in which case they must agree to be bound by and comply with the provisions of the market rules for the ontario electricity market as well as the mandatory reliability standards of the nerc. in addition, neer is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the nee environmental matters section below. in order to better anticipate potential regulatory changes, neer continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. 19 table of contents neer employees neer and its subsidiaries had approximately 5,300 employees at december 31, 2016 . certain subsidiaries of neer have collective bargaining agreements with the ibew, the utility workers union of america, the security police and fire professionals of america and the international union of operating engineers, which collectively represent approximately 17% of neer's employees. the collective bargaining agreements have three- to five-year terms and expire between 2018 and 2021. nee environmental matters nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. the u.s. congress and certain states and regions, as well as the government of canada and its provinces, have taken and continue to take certain actions, such as proposing and finalizing regulation or setting targets or goals, regarding the reduction of ghg emissions and the increase of renewable energy generation. numerous environmental regulations also affecting fpl, neer and certain other subsidiaries relate to threatened and endangered species and their habitats, as well as other avian and bat species. complying with these environmental laws and regulations results in, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. the impact of complying with current environmental laws and regulations has not had, and, along with compliance with proposed regulations as currently written, is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the financial statements of nee and fpl. as permitted by the environmental clause, fpl expects to seek recovery for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. website access to sec filings nee and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on nee's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information and materials available on nee's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined form 10-k. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. 20 table of contents executive officers of nee (a) name age position effective date miguel arechabala 56 executive vice president, power generation division of nee executive vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2014 deborah h. caplan 54 executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of nee executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of fpl april 15, 2013 terrell kirk crews, ii 38 vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of nee september 19, 2016 paul i. cutler 57 treasurer of nee treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of nee february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 joseph t. kelliher 56 executive vice president, federal regulatory affairs of nee may 18, 2009 john w. ketchum 46 executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of nee executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl march 4, 2016 manoochehr k. nazar 62 president nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of nee president nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of fpl may 23, 2014 may 30, 2014 armando pimentel, jr. 54 president and chief executive officer of neer october 5, 2011 james l. robo 54 chairman, president and chief executive officer of nee chairman of fpl december 13, 2013 may 2, 2012 charles e. sieving 44 executive vice president &amp; general counsel of nee executive vice president of fpl december 1, 2008 january 1, 2009 eric e. silagy 51 president and chief executive officer of fpl may 30, 2014 william l. yeager 58 executive vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain of nee executive vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain of fpl january 1, 2013 ______________________ (a) information is as of february 23, 2017 . executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his/her present position for five years or more and his/her employment history is continuous. mr. arechabala was president of nextera energy espa a, s.l., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of nee, from february 2010 to december 2013. ms. caplan was vice president and chief operating officer of fpl from may 2011 to april 2013. mr. crews served as nee's vice president, finance from april 2016 to september 2016. from july 2015 to april 2016, he was a partner in the national office of deloitte &amp; touche llp (deloitte); from june 2013 to june 2015, he served as a professional accounting fellow in the office of the chief accountant of the sec; and from june 2010 to june 2013, he was an audit service senior manager at deloitte. mr. ketchum served as nee's senior vice president, finance from february 2015 to march 2016, and senior vice president, business management and finance from december 2013 to february 2015. from december 2012 to december 2013, he was senior vice president, business management of neer and vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary of neer from june 2009 to december 2012. mr. nazar has been chief nuclear officer of nee and fpl since january 2010 and was executive vice president, nuclear division of nee and fpl from january 2010 to may 2014. mr. robo has been president and chief executive officer of nee since july 2012. mr. robo was the chief executive officer of fpl from may 2012 to may 2014 and president and chief operating officer of nee from december 2006 to june 2012. mr. silagy has been president of fpl since december 2011. mr. yeager was vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain services of nee and fpl from october 2012 to december 2012 and vice president, integrated supply chain of nee and fpl from may 2011 to october 2012. 21 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to nee's and fpl's business the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of nee and fpl. these risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or that are currently believed to not be material to the business, may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl and may cause actual results of nee and fpl to differ substantially from those that nee or fpl currently expects or seeks. in that event, the market price for the securities of nee or fpl could decline. accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that nee and fpl file with the sec. regulatory, legislative and legal risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. the operations of nee and fpl are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. this extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, nee's and fpl's industries, businesses, rates and cost structures, operation and licensing of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, natural gas, oil and other fuel transportation, processing and storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. in their business planning and in the management of their operations, nee and fpl must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. fpl is an electric utility subject to the jurisdiction of the fpsc over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers and fuel for its plant operations, issuances of securities, and aspects of the siting, construction and operation of its generation plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that fpl is permitted to earn on invested capital. the regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in florida and elsewhere, limits or could otherwise adversely impact fpl's earnings. the regulatory process also does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels, or that fpl will be permitted to earn an acceptable return on capital investments it wishes to make. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. certain other subsidiaries of nee are transmission utilities subject to the jurisdiction of their regulators and are subject to similar risks. regulatory decisions that are important to nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. the local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on fpsc decisions with negative consequences for fpl. these decisions may require, for example, fpl to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. certain other subsidiaries of nee are subject to similar risks. fpl's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the fpsc. the fpsc engages in an annual prudence review of fpl's use of derivative instruments in its risk management fuel procurement program and should it find any such use to be imprudent, the fpsc could deny cost recovery for such use by fpl. such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support utility scale renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax laws, policies and incentives, rps, feed-in tariffs or the clean power plan, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning 22 table of contents the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer depends heavily on government policies that support utility scale renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which neer operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. the federal government, a majority of the 50 u.s. states and portions of canada and spain provide incentives, such as tax incentives, rps, feed-in tariffs or the clean power plan, that support or are designed to support the sale of energy from utility scale renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. as a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their laws and policies that support renewable energy and consider actions that would make the laws and policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support renewable energy or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations, interpretations or other regulatory initiatives. nee's and fpl's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, new or revised laws, including international trade laws, regulations, interpretations and other regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and regulation of environmental matters, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. changes in the nature of the regulation of nee's and fpl's business could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on nee and fpl, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. fpl has limited competition in the florida market for retail electricity customers. any changes in florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the florida retail electricity market, such as government incentives that facilitate the installation of solar generation facilities on residential or other rooftops at below cost or that are otherwise subsidized by non-participants, or would permit third-party sales of electricity, could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be no assurance that fpl will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer is subject to ferc rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. nee cannot predict the impact of changing ferc rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond nee's control. there can be no assurance that neer will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any other changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's otc financial derivatives are subject to rules implementing the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and similar international regulations that are designed to promote transparency, mitigate systemic risk and protect against market abuse. nee and fpl cannot predict the impact any proposed or not fully implemented final rules will have on their ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks or on otc derivatives markets as a whole, but such rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities. nee and fpl are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require nee and fpl to limit or eliminate certain operations. nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws, regulations and other standards, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 , waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and rps, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. 23 table of contents there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new requirements and stricter or more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. for example, among other new, potential or pending changes are federal regulation of co 2 emissions under the clean power plan and state and federal regulation of the use of hydraulic fracturing or similar technologies to drill for natural gas and related compounds used by nee's gas infrastructure business. violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose nee and fpl to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. proceedings could include, for example, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements such as air, water and soil quality standards. nee's and fpl's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 and methane, from electric generation units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. although it is currently subject to a stay issued by the u.s. supreme court, the clean power plan is an example of such a new regulation at the federal level. the potential effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on nee's and fpl's electric generation units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. while nee's and fpl's electric generation units emit greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the u.s. electric generation sector, the results of operations of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state laws or regulations impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; make some of nee's and fpl's electric generation units uneconomical to operate in the long term; require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. there can be no assurance that nee or fpl would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. extensive federal regulation of the operations and businesses of nee and fpl exposes nee and fpl to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. nee's and fpl's operations and businesses are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on their operations and businesses. additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. as an example, under the energy policy act of 2005, nee and fpl, as owners and operators of bulk-power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject nee and fpl to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if fpl or nee is found not to be in compliance with these standards, it may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including but not limited to changes in corporate income tax rates, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including changes in corporate income tax rates, the financial condition and results of operations of nee and fpl, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. these factors, including the ultimate resolution of income tax matters, may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 24 table of contents nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings in which nee is involved or other future legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, class action lawsuits, may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. operational risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if nee and fpl do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. nee's and fpl's ability to proceed with projects under development and to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, native american and aboriginal groups, lessors, joint venture partners and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. if any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or otherwise be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may be available, and nee and fpl could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write off all or a portion of their investment in the project. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. nee and fpl own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generation and transmission facilities and natural gas transmission facilities. a key component of nee's and fpl's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. as part of these operations, nee and fpl must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. should nee or fpl be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on nee or fpl, nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements or other agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at higher prices. uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining nee's and fpl's facilities include, but are not limited to: risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, icing events, floods, earthquakes and droughts; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires, leaks or other major events, of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines; availability of replacement equipment; 25 table of contents risks of property damage or human injury from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires, leaks or other events; availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; inability to identify, manage properly or mitigate equipment defects in nee's and fpl's facilities; use of new or unproven technology; risks associated with dependence on a specific type of fuel or fuel source, such as commodity price risk, availability of adequate fuel supply and transportation, and lack of available alternative fuel sources; increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply, shifting demand and regulatory changes; and insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities, as well as the need for energy-related commodities such as natural gas. customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of nee and fpl, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. a lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity or natural gas and other fuels may cause nee and fpl to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. in addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, icing events and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of fuel and water, and require nee and fpl to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. furthermore, nee's and fpl's physical plants could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to fpl, a change in sea level. fpl operates in the east and lower west coasts of florida, an area that historically has been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. a disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent nee and fpl from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. at fpl and other businesses of nee where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generation facilities, including, but not limited to, neer's wind and solar facilities. for example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generation facilities. because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, neer's results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and nee's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. to the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt nee's and fpl's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. there have been cyber attacks on energy infrastructure such as substations, gas pipelines and related assets in the past and there may be such attacks in the future. nee's and fpl's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or otherwise be materially adversely affected by, such activities. terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other similar events affecting nee's and fpl's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which nee and fpl rely, could harm nee's and fpl's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power, natural gas or other energy-related commodities by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process 26 table of contents payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generation, distribution or transmission facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. these events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), significant fines and penalties, and reputational damage, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair nee's and fpl's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). in addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. such events or actions may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. nee's and fpl's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to nee and fpl. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. if insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, nee or fpl may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. nee and fpl generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. for example, fpl is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but would instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the fpsc, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. a loss for which nee or fpl is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee invests in gas and oil producing and transmission assets through neer's gas infrastructure business. the gas infrastructure business is exposed to fluctuating market prices of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil and other energy commodities. a prolonged period of low gas and oil prices could impact neer's gas infrastructure business and cause neer to delay or cancel certain gas infrastructure projects and for certain existing projects to be impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. natural gas and oil prices are affected by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, political instability, conflicts, new discoveries, technological advances, economic conditions and actions by major oil-producing countries. there can be significant volatility in market prices for gas and oil, and price fluctuations could have a material effect on the financial performance of gas and oil producing and transmission assets. for example, in a low gas and oil price environment, neer would generate less revenue from its gas infrastructure investments in gas and oil producing properties, and as a result certain investments might become less profitable or incur losses. prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices could also result in oil and gas production and transmission projects to be delayed or cancelled or to experience lower returns, and for certain projects to become impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. if supply costs necessary to provide neer's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. the supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. neer may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, neer's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the commodity risks within its portfolios could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. nee's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures, based on factors both from within, or wholly or partially outside of, nee's control, may materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 27 table of contents reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of nee to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect nee's results of operations. nee is an active participant in energy markets. the liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in nee's ability to manage risks in these operations. market liquidity is driven in part by the number of active market participants, which has declined in recent years as some banks and other financial institutions have withdrawn from power marketing. liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. nee and fpl have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. nee and fpl are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks, including, without limitation, employee misconduct. if such procedures and tools are not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, nee's and fpl's risk management tools associated with their hedging and trading procedures may not protect against significant losses. nee's and fpl's risk management tools and metrics associated with their hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, nee and fpl are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against material adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, fpl's and neer's ability to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. fpl and neer depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond fpl's and neer's control (such as severe weather or a generation or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt the ability of fpl and neer to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. nee and fpl are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may adversely affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with nee and fpl. for example, the prolonged downturn in oil and natural gas prices has adversely affected the financial stability of a number of enterprises in the energy industry, including some with which nee does business. if any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, nee and fpl may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in material financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. if a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, nee and fpl may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if nee or fpl is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. nee and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the otc markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for nee to engage in trading and marketing activities. any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. similarly, any requirement for fpl or nee to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. these risks may be increased during periods of adverse market or economic conditions affecting the industries in which nee participates. 28 table of contents nee and fpl are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite nee's and fpl's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. if nee's or fpl's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised and nee and fpl could be unable to fulfill critical business functions. nee's and fpl's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. due to the size, scope, complexity and geographical reach of nee's and fpl's business, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process information is critical and challenging. nee's and fpl's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, their control, such as operator error, severe weather or terrorist activities. any such failure or disabling event could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues and the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. nee and fpl also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. nee's and fpl's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in a material adverse impact to their reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee's and fpl's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. if a significant breach occurred, the reputation of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. nee and fpl would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or nee and fpl could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in otc markets. nee and fpl execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the otc markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. transactions executed in otc markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. as a result, nee and fpl may not be able to execute desired otc transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment and use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity. from time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting nee and fpl. adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from nee's and fpl's business. addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of nee and fpl, 29 table of contents on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with their respective regulators. it may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. the direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in florida. fpl must negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of fpl's revenues. if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and fpl may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these consequences could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. nee is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry in general. in addition, nee may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. nep's acquisitions may not be completed and, even if completed, nee may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee may not realize the anticipated benefits from the texas pipeline business. although nep has made a number of acquisitions of wind and solar generation projects, the texas pipeline business is the first third party acquisition by nep and is nep's first acquisition of natural gas pipeline assets. in the future nep may make additional acquisitions of assets which are inherently risky and nee may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nuclear generation risks the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. nee and fpl maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in nee's and fpl's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. if nee or fpl is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of fpl, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. in the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, nee and fpl could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the price-anderson act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. in accordance with this act, nee maintains the maximum amount of private liability insurance obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides liability insurance coverage for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. under the secondary 30 table of contents financial protection system, nee is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums, plus any applicable taxes, for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident. such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require nee and fpl to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities and/or result in reduced revenues. the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of new nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a nuclear generation facility, depending upon the nrc's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. any of the foregoing events could require nee and fpl to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. any serious nuclear incident occurring at a nee or fpl plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. an incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the nrc to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, or on certain types of nuclear generation units, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. the inability to operate any of nee's or fpl's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the operating licenses for nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities extend through at least 2030. if the facilities cannot be operated for any reason through the life of those operating licenses, nee or fpl may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. if planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, nee's and fpl's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications as well as to replace equipment. in the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. liquidity, capital requirements and common stock risks disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of nee and fpl. nee and fpl rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets could increase nee's and fpl's cost of capital and affect their ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives. if nee or fpl is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. although nee's competitive energy and certain other subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific or other financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. the inability of nee's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, neech and nep and their respective subsidiaries, to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific or other financing for electric generation or other facilities or acquisitions on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by nee and/or neech in the future. the inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific or other financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders 31 table of contents would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. such an occurrence also could result in nee expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. any of these actions could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for nee or its subsidiaries. nee's, neech's and fpl's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of nee and fpl to grow their business, and increase interest costs. the inability of nee, neech and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could materially adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact nee's and fpl's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. in addition, certain agreements and guarantee arrangements would require posting of additional collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade. some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, nee's overall business mix and political, legislative and regulatory actions. there can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of nee, neech and fpl will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. nee's and fpl's liquidity may be impaired if their credit providers are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. the inability of nee's, neech's and fpl's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require nee, neech or fpl, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity. poor market performance and other economic factors could affect nee's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and prospects. nee sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of nee and its subsidiaries. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. nee's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since, as interest rates decrease the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of nee's and fpl's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee and fpl are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. certain of nee's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may materially adversely affect nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee holds certain investments where changes in the fair value affect nee's financial results. in some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. this type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. a sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to nee. nee is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. substantially all of nee's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. nee's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to nee. nee's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide nee with funds for its payment obligations. the subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy 32 table of contents before they can provide nee with funds. in addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, nee's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. the dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. the future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of nee's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if nee is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. nee guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than fpl, through guarantee agreements with neech. these guarantees may require nee to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when nee is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect nee's ability to meet its financial obligations or to pay dividends. nep may not be able to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to consummate future acquisitions and on the value of nee's limited partner interest in nep opco. nee understands that nep expects to finance acquisitions of clean energy projects partially or wholly through the issuance of additional common units. nep needs to be able to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. nep's ability to access the equity capital markets is dependent on, among other factors, the overall state of the capital markets and investor appetite for investment in clean energy projects in general and nep's common units in particular. an inability to obtain equity financing on commercially reasonable terms could limit nep's ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy in the manner currently contemplated. furthermore there may not be sufficient availability under nep opco's subsidiaries' revolving credit facility or other financing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. if debt financing is available, it may be available only on terms that could significantly increase nep's interest expense, impose additional or more restrictive covenants and reduce cash distributions to its unitholders. an inability to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms could significantly limit nep's ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy. nep's inability to effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on nep's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders. through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, nee owns a limited partner interest in nep opco. nep's inability to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms and effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on nep's ability to grow its cash distributions to its unitholders, including nee, and on the value of nee's limited partnership interest in nep opco. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of nee's common stock. the market price and trading volume of nee's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of nee and its subsidiaries. as a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of nee's common stock. 33 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on nee's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause nee's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of nee and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and nee and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nee is one of the largest electric power and energy infrastructure companies in north america and a leader in the renewable energy industry. nee has two principal businesses, fpl and neer. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. fpl's strategic focus is centered on investing in generation, transmission and distribution facilities to continue to deliver on its value proposition of low bills, high reliability, outstanding customer service and clean energy solutions for the benefit of its nearly five million customers. neer is the world's largest operator of wind and solar projects. neer's strategic focus is centered on the development, construction and operation of long-term contracted assets throughout the u.s. and canada, including renewable generation facilities, natural gas pipelines and battery storage projects. as described in more detail in the following sections, nee seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors. nee's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both fpl and neer. management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities available to it; however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by fpl and neer is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise and recognizes that each business contributes to nee's financial strength in different ways. fpl and neer share a common platform with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses. nee and its subsidiaries continue to develop and implement enterprise-wide initiatives focused on improving productivity, process effectiveness and quality. nee, which employed approximately 14,000 people at december 31, 2017, was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida. nee conducts its operations principally through its two wholly owned subsidiaries, fpl and neer, which also constitute nee's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. see note 14 for certain financial information about these segments. neech, another wholly owned subsidiary of nee, owns and provides funding for neer's and nee's operating subsidiaries, other than fpl. nep was formed in 2014. nep acquires, manages and owns contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows. see neer section below for further discussion of nep, including changes to its governance structure, which resulted in the deconsolidation of nep in january 2018. 4 table of contents fpl fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925 and is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in florida. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. at december 31, 2017 , fpl had approximately 26,600 mw of net generating capacity, approximately 75,000 circuit miles of transmission and distribution lines and approximately 620 substations. fpl provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers. at december 31, 2017 , fpl served approximately ten million people through nearly five million customer accounts. fpl's service territory, which covers most of the east and lower west coasts of florida, and plant locations at december 31, 2017 were as follows (see fpl sources of generation below): 5 table of contents customers and revenue fpl's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within florida. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues and customer accounts by customer class were as follows: for both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that fpl may charge are approved by regulatory bodies, by the fpsc in the case of retail customers, and by the ferc in the case of wholesale customers. in general, under u.s. and florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. since the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed, there can be no guarantee that fpl will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates. see fpl regulation below. fpl seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low-cost position, including the implementation of ideas generated from cost savings initiatives. a common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the price of 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer. fpl's 2017 average bill for 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was well below both the average of reporting electric utilities within florida and the july 2017 national average (the latest date for which this data is available) as indicated below: 6 table of contents franchise agreements and competition fpl's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and fpl has the right to offer electric service to residents. fpl currently holds 181 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2048. these franchise agreements cover approximately 88% of fpl's retail customer base in florida. fpl also provides service to 12 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility. fpl relies upon florida law for access to public rights of way. because any customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, fpl effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. as a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since fpl's cost of service is lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. changing technology, economic conditions and other factors could alter the favorable relative cost position that fpl currently enjoys; however, fpl seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of low customer bills, high reliability and outstanding customer service. in addition to self-generation by residential, commercial and industrial customers, fpl also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources. in each of 2017, 2016 and 2015, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately five percent of fpl's total operating revenues. for the building of new steam and solar generating capacity of 75 mw or greater, the fpsc requires investor-owned electric utilities, including fpl, to issue a request for proposal (rfp) except when the fpsc determines that an exception from the rfp process is in the public interest. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. fpl sources of generation at december 31, 2017 , fpl's resources for serving load consisted of 27,067 mw, of which 26,578 mw were from fpl-owned facilities and approximately 489 mw were available through purchased power agreements. fpl owned and operated 34 units that used fossil fuels, primarily natural gas, with generating capacity of 21,978 mw and had joint ownership interests in 3 coal units, which it does not operate, with net generating capacity of 888 mw. in addition, fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated, 4 nuclear units with net generating capacity totaling 3,453 mw (see nuclear operations below) and owned and operated 5 solar generation facilities with generating capacity totaling 259 mw (excluding 75 mw of non-incremental solar capability which is provided through a natural gas generation facility). fpl customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. in january 2018, the st. johns river power park coal units (sjrpp), in which fpl had a 20% ownership interest (254 mw), were shut down. this shutdown had the effect of terminating fpl's 375 mw take-or-pay purchased power contract with jea, the joint owner of sjrpp (see note 13 - contracts). 7 table of contents fuel sources fpl relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generation facilities, the ability of some of its generation facilities to operate on both natural gas and oil, and on purchased power to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix in order to respond to market and industry developments. *oil is less than 1% *oil and solar are collectively less than 1% significant fuel and transportation contracts. at december 31, 2017 , fpl had the following significant fuel and transportation contracts in place: fpl has firm transportation contracts with seven different transportation suppliers for natural gas pipeline capacity for an aggregate maximum delivery quantity of 2,769,000 mmbtu/day currently, of which 1,969,000 mmbtu/day have expiration dates ranging from 2018 to 2036. the remaining 800,000 mmbtu/day increases to 1,200,000 mmbtu/day starting in mid-2020 through 2042. see note 13 - contracts. fpl has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from march 2018 through 2033. additionally, fpl enters into short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. nuclear operations at december 31, 2017 , fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the four nuclear units in florida discussed below. fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. facility fpl's ownership (mw) beginning of next scheduled refueling outage operating license expiration date st. lucie unit no. 1 981 march 2018 2036 st. lucie unit no. 2 840 (a) august 2018 2043 turkey point unit no. 3 811 october 2018 2032 (b) turkey point unit no. 4 821 march 2019 2033 (b) ______________________ (a) excludes 147 mw operated by fpl but owned by non-affiliates. (b) in january 2018, fpl filed an application with the nrc to renew the operating licenses for turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 for an additional 20 years, which license renewals are pending. nrc regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the existing operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be shut down in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 commencing in 2043. 8 table of contents fpl's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. fpl energy marketing and trading fpl's energy marketing &amp; trading division (emt) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the physical and financial risks inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 3. fpl regulation fpl's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following: the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things; the ferc, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of generation, transmission and other facilities, transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce, proposals to build and operate interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things; the nerc, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the ferc, to ensure the reliability of the u.s. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts; the nrc, which has jurisdiction over the operation of nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders; and the epa, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws, in some cases delegating authority to state agencies. the epa also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts. fpl rate regulation the fpsc sets rates at a level that is intended to allow fpl the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to fpl's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. base rates . in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are established, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the fpsc's determination of fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed roe. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that any regulatory roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings. proceedings can occur at the initiative of fpl or upon action by the fpsc. base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the fpsc. rates effective january 2017 through december 2020 - in december 2016, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2016 rate agreement). key elements of the 2016 rate agreement, which is effective from january 2017 through at least december 2020, include, among other things, the following: new retail base rates and charges were established resulting in the following increases in annualized retail base revenues: $400 million beginning january 1, 2017; $211 million beginning january 1, 2018; and $200 million when a new approximately 1,750 mw natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit in okeechobee county, florida (okeechobee clean energy center) achieves commercial operation, which is expected to occur in mid-2019. in addition, fpl is eligible to receive, subject to conditions specified in the 2016 rate agreement, base rate increases associated with the addition of up to 300 mw annually of new solar generation in each of 2017 through 2020 and may carry forward any unused mw to subsequent years during the term of the 2016 rate agreement. approximately 300 mw of new solar generating capacity became operational in january 2018. an additional 300 mw is expected to be operational by march 2018 and in both of 2019 and 2020. fpl will be required to demonstrate that any proposed solar facilities are cost effective and scheduled to be in service before december 31, 2021. fpl has agreed to an installed cost cap of $1,750 per kw. 9 table of contents fpl's allowed regulatory roe is 10.55%, with a range of 9.60% to 11.60%. if fpl's earned regulatory roe falls below 9.60%, fpl may seek retail base rate relief. if the earned regulatory roe rises above 11.60%, any party other than fpl may seek a review of fpl's retail base rates. subject to certain conditions, fpl may amortize, over the term of the 2016 rate agreement, up to $1.0 billion of depreciation reserve surplus plus the reserve amount remaining under fpl's 2012 rate agreement discussed below (approximately $250 million), provided that in any year of the 2016 rate agreement, fpl must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.60% earned regulatory roe but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory roe in excess of 11.60%. see note 1 - securitized storm-recovery costs, storm fund and storm reserve for discussion of the reserve amortization impact following the enactment of the tax cuts and jobs act (tax reform). future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. if storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, fpl may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover amounts above $400 million. see note 1 - securitized storm-recovery costs, storm fund and storm reserve. in january 2017, the sierra club filed a notice of appeal challenging the fpsc's final order approving the 2016 rate agreement, which notice of appeal is pending before the florida supreme court. rates effective january 2013 through december 2016 - effective january 2013, pursuant to an fpsc final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement), new retail base rates and charges for fpl were established resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of $350 million on an annualized basis. the 2012 rate agreement, provided for, among other things, the following: a regulatory roe of 10.50% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points; an increase in annualized base revenue requirements as each of three fpl modernized power plants became operational in april 2013, april 2014 and april 2016; the continuation of cost recovery through the capacity clause (reported as retail base revenues) for a generating unit which was placed in service in may 2011 (beginning january 2017, under the 2016 rate agreement, cost recovery is through base rates); subject to certain conditions, the right to reduce depreciation expense up to $400 million (reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, fpl was required to amortize enough reserve to maintain an earned regulatory roe within the range of 9.50% to 11.50% (the reserve amount was reduced by $30 million to up to $370 million as a result of a settlement in august 2015 related to the purchase of a 250 mw coal-fired generation facility located in jacksonville, florida (cedar bay generation facility), which fpl retired in december 2016); an interim cost recovery mechanism for storm restoration costs (see note 1 - securitized storm-recovery costs, storm fund and storm reserve); and an incentive mechanism whereby customers receive 100% of certain gains, including but not limited to gains from the purchase and sale of electricity and natural gas (including transportation and storage), up to a specified threshold; gains exceeding that specified threshold were shared by fpl and its customers. cost recovery clauses . cost recovery clauses are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses. cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class. these cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. fpl recovers costs from customers through the following clauses: fuel - fuel costs and energy charges relating to purchased power agreements, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses in terms of operating revenues (see note 1 - rate regulation); capacity - primarily capacity payments to non-utility generators and other utilities and certain costs associated with the acquisition of certain generation facilities (see note 1 - rate regulation and note 13 - contracts); energy conservation - costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs; and environmental - certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 and costs associated with three of fpl's solar facilities placed in service prior to 2016. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. these costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. 10 table of contents ferc the federal power act grants the ferc exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce. pursuant to the federal power act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the ferc which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of ferc-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. the federal power act also gives the ferc authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to establish and independently enforce mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system. see nerc below. electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the ferc. the ferc also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates. nerc the nerc has been certified by the ferc as the national electric reliability organization. the nerc's mandate is to ensure the reliability and security of the north american bulk-power system through the establishment and enforcement of reliability standards approved by ferc. the nerc's regional entities also enforce reliability standards approved by the ferc. fpl is subject to these reliability standards and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them. fpl environmental regulation fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the nee environmental matters section below. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. fpl employees fpl had approximately 8,700 employees at december 31, 2017 , with approximately 34% of these employees represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew) under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2020. neer neer, a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware, was formed in 1998 to aggregate nee's competitive energy businesses. neer is a diversified clean energy company with a business strategy that emphasizes the development, construction and operation of long-term contracted assets with a focus on renewable projects. through its subsidiaries, neer currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generation facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the u.s., as well as in canada and spain. see note 14 for information on revenues from foreign sources and long lived assets located in foreign countries. neer, with approximately 19,060 mw of total net generating capacity at december 31, 2017 , is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with approximately 18,180 mw of net generating capacity across 32 states, and has 780 mw of net generating capacity in 4 canadian provinces and 99.8 mw of net generating capacity in spain. at december 31, 2017 , neer operates facilities with a total generating capacity of 20,950 mw. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. neer is the world's largest operator of wind and solar projects based on 2017 mwh produced. neer develops and builds battery storage projects, which when combined with its renewable projects, serves to enhance its ability to meet customer needs for a firm generation source. neer also owned and operated approximately 205 substations and 1,190 circuit miles of transmission lines at december 31, 2017 . neer also engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, primarily to hedge the production from its generation assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements. these contracts primarily include power and gas commodities and their related products, as well as provide full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offer customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers. in addition, neer participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production primarily through non-operating ownership interests, and in pipeline infrastructure development, construction, management and operations, through either wholly owned subsidiaries or noncontrolling or joint venture interests, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business. neer also hedges the expected output from its gas infrastructure production assets to protect against price movements. nep - as discussed in the overview above, nep was formed in 2014. nep acquires, manages and owns contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows through a limited partner interest in nep opco. through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, nee owns 101,440,000 common units of nep opco representing a noncontrolling interest in nep's operating projects of approximately 65.1% at december 31, 2017 . at december 31, 2017 , nee owned a controlling general partner interest in nep and consolidated nep for financial reporting purposes (see below for discussion of deconsolidation of nep). at december 31, 2017 , through the combination of neer's contribution of energy projects to nep opco in connection with nep's ipo in july 2014 and subsequent acquisitions of additional energy projects, nep owned, or had an interest in, a portfolio of 26 wind and solar projects with generating capacity totaling approximately 3,728 mw and long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets as discussed below. neer operates substantially all of the energy projects in nep's portfolio and its ownership interest in the portfolio's generating 11 table of contents capacity was approximately 2,429 mw at december 31, 2017 . in addition in 2015, nep opco issued 2 million nep opco class b units to neer in exchange for an approximately 50% ownership interest in three solar projects with a total generating capacity of 277 mw. neer, as holder of the class b units, will retain 100% of the economic interests if, and until, neer offers to sell the economic interests to nep and nep accepts such offer. nep opco has a right of first offer for certain of neer's assets (rofo assets) if neer should seek to sell the assets. the rofo assets remaining at december 31, 2017 , include contracted wind and solar projects with a combined generating capacity of approximately 1,076 mw. in addition, neer and its subsidiaries (other than nep opco and its subsidiaries) have a right of first refusal on any proposed sale of any of the nep opco assets. in 2015, nep acquired the membership interests in net holdings management, llc (texas pipeline business), a developer, owner and operator of a portfolio of seven intrastate long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets located in texas (texas pipelines). see generation and other operations - generation assets and other operations - other operations below. during 2017, changes were made to nep's governance structure that, among other things, enhanced nep unitholder governance rights. as a result of the governance changes, nep was deconsolidated from nee in january 2018 and going forward, nee will reflect its ownership interest in nep as an equity method investment and future earnings from nep as equity in earnings of equity method investees in its consolidated financial statements. additionally, sales of assets to nep will be accounted for as third-party sales. see note 1 - nextera energy partners, lp. generation and other operations neer sells products associated with its own generation facilities (energy, capacity, renewable energy credits (recs) and ancillary services) in competitive markets in regions where those facilities are located. customer transactions may be supplied from neer generation facilities or from purchases in the wholesale markets, or from a combination thereof. see markets and competition below. at december 31, 2017 , neer managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its generation projects and all of its natural gas pipeline assets in which it has an ownership interest. at december 31, 2017 , the locations of neer's generation facilities and natural gas pipeline assets in north america were as follows: 12 table of contents generation assets and other operations generation assets. neer's portfolio of generation assets primarily consist of generation facilities with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their capacity and/or energy output. information related to contracted generation assets at december 31, 2017 was as follows: represented approximately 17,012 mw of total net generating capacity; weighted-average remaining contract term of the power sales agreements and the remaining life of the ptcs associated with repowered wind facilities of approximately 17 years, based on forecasted contributions to earnings and forecasted amounts of electricity produced by the repowered wind facilities; and contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from march 2018 through 2033 (see note 13 - contracts). neer's merchant generation assets primarily consist of a nuclear generation facility and oil-fired generation facilities that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their capacity and/or energy output and therefore require active marketing and hedging. merchant generation assets at december 31, 2017 represented approximately 2,047 mw of total net generating capacity, including 1,102 mw from nuclear generation and 781 mw from oil-fired peak generation facilities, and are primarily located in the northeast region of the u.s. neer utilizes swaps, options, futures and forwards to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. other operations. gas infrastructure business - at december 31, 2017 , neer had approximately $4.0 billion invested in the natural gas pipelines discussed below and ownership interests in investments located in oil and gas shale formations primarily in the midwest and south regions of the u.s. miles of pipeline pipeline location/route neer's ownership total capacity (per day) actual/expected in-service dates operational: texas pipelines (a) 542 south texas 61.4% 4.05 bcf 1950 - 2014 sabal trail (b) 515 southwestern alabama to central florida 42.5% 0.83 bcf - 1.075 bcf june 2017 - mid-2021 florida southeast connection (b) 126 central florida to martin county, florida 100% 0.64 bcf june 2017 in development: mountain valley pipeline (c) 301 marcellus and utica shale regions to markets in the mid-atlantic and southeast regions of the u.s. 31% 2.00 bcf end of 2018 ______________________ (a) a nep portfolio of seven natural gas pipelines, of which a third party owns a 10% interest in a 120 mile pipeline with a daily capacity of approximately 2.3 bcf. approximately 3.2 bcf per day of capacity is contracted with firm ship-or-pay contracts that have expiration dates ranging from 2018 to 2035. (b) see note 13 - contracts for a discussion of transportation contracts with fpl. (c) construction of the natural gas pipeline is subject to certain conditions, including ferc approval to proceed. see note 13 - commitments. 13 table of contents customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading - neer provides commodities-related products to customers, engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities and includes the operations of a retail electricity provider. through its subsidiary pmi, neer: manages risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and optimizes the value of neer's power generation and gas infrastructure production assets through the use of swaps, options, futures and forwards; sells output from neer's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures fossil fuel for use by neer's generation fleet; provides full energy and capacity requirements to customers; and markets and trades energy-related commodity products and provides a wide range of electricity and fuel commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to customers. neer fuel/technology mix neer utilized the following mix of fuel sources for its generation facilities: wind facilities located in 21 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada; operated a total generating capacity of 14,255 mw at december 31, 2017 ; ownership interests in a total net generating capacity of 13,111 mw at december 31, 2017 ; all mw are from contracted wind assets located primarily throughout texas and the west and midwest regions of the u.s. and canada; and added approximately 355 mw of new generating capacity and 1,596 mw of wind repowering generating capacity in the u.s. in 2017 . solar facilities located in 16 states in the u.s., 1 province in canada and 1 province in spain; operated pv and solar thermal facilities with a total generating capacity of 2,035 mw at december 31, 2017 ; ownership interests in pv and solar thermal facilities with a total net generating capacity of 2,024 mw at december 31, 2017 ; essentially all mw are from contracted solar facilities located primarily throughout the west region of the u.s.; added approximately 200 mw of generating capacity in the u.s. in 2017 ; and sold approximately 80 mw of generating capacity in the u.s. in 2017 . fossil facilities operated natural gas generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 730 mw at december 31, 2017 ; ownership interests in natural gas generation facilities with a total net generating capacity of 420 mw at december 31, 2017 ; approximately 262 mw are contracted and 158 mw are merchant; located in 3 states in the northeast region of the u.s.; and operated oil-fired peak generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 878 mw with an ownership or undivided interests in total net generating capacity of 781 mw at december 31, 2017 primarily located in maine. 14 table of contents nuclear facilities at december 31, 2017 , neer owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the four nuclear units discussed below. neer's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. facility location neer's ownership (mw) portfolio category next scheduled refueling outage operating license expiration date seabrook new hampshire 1,102 (a) merchant october 2018 2030 (b) duane arnold iowa 431 (c) contracted (d) september 2018 2034 point beach unit no. 1 wisconsin 595 contracted (e) march 2019 2030 point beach unit no. 2 wisconsin 595 contracted (e) october 2018 2033 ______________________ (a) excludes 147 mw operated by neer but owned by non-affiliates. (b) in 2010, neer filed an application with the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years, which license renewal is pending. (c) excludes 184 mw operated by neer but owned by non-affiliates. (d) neer sells all of its share of the output of duane arnold under a long-term contract expiring in december 2025. see note 4 - nonrecurring fair value measurements. (e) neer sells all of the output of point beach units nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through their current operating license expiration dates. neer is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly-owned units. nrc regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. neer's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. policy incentives for renewable energy projects u.s. federal, state and local governments have established various incentives to support the development of renewable energy projects. these incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, ptcs, itcs, cash grants, tax abatements and rps programs. pursuant to the u.s. federal modified accelerated cost recovery system (macrs), wind and solar projects are fully depreciated for tax purposes over a five-year period even though the useful life of such projects is generally much longer than five years. owners of utility-scale wind facilities are eligible to claim an income tax credit (the ptc, or an itc in lieu of the ptc) upon initially achieving commercial operation. the ptc is determined based on the amount of electricity produced by the wind facility during the first ten years of commercial operation. this incentive was created under the energy policy act of 1992 and has been extended several times. alternatively, an itc equal to 30% of the cost of a wind facility may be claimed in lieu of the ptc. in order to qualify for the ptc (or itc in lieu of the ptc), construction of a wind facility must begin before a specified date and the taxpayer must maintain a continuous program of construction or continuous efforts to advance the project to completion. the internal revenue service (irs) issued guidance stating that the safe harbor for continuous efforts and continuous construction requirements will generally be satisfied if the facility is placed in service no more than four years after the year in which construction of the facility began. the irs also confirmed that retrofitted wind facilities may re-qualify for ptcs or itcs pursuant to the 5% safe harbor for the begin construction requirement, as long as the cost basis of the new investment is at least 80% of the facility's total fair value. owners of solar projects are eligible to claim a 30% itc for new solar projects, or could have elected to receive an equivalent cash payment from the u.s. department of treasury for the value of the 30% itc (convertible itc) for qualifying solar projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects were placed in service before 2017. tax credits for qualifying wind and solar projects are subject to the following phase-down schedule. year construction of project begins 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 ptc (a) 100 % 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % - - - wind itc 30 % 30 % 24 % 18 % 12 % - - - solar itc (b) 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % 26 % 22 % 10 % _________________________ (a) percentage of the full ptc available for wind projects that begin construction during the applicable year. (b) itc is limited to 10% for projects not placed in service before january 1, 2024. other countries, including canada and spain, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. the feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology. 15 table of contents markets and competition electricity markets in the u.s. and canada are regional and diverse in character. all are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. the nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region. generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, neer may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. neer's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities may also be constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing. the degree and nature of competition that neer faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets. during 2017 , approximately 87% of neer's revenue was derived from wholesale electricity markets. wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. neer primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of neer's generation assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage reliable customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages. wholesale power generation is a regional business that is highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. as such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies neer competes with depending on the market. in wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services. in general, u.s. electricity markets encompass three classes of services: energy, capacity and ancillary services. energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services that relate to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves. the exact nature of these classes of services is defined in part by regional tariffs. not all regions have a capacity services class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region. rtos and isos exist throughout much of north america to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets. neer operates in all rto and iso jurisdictions. at december 31, 2017 , neer also had generation facilities with ownership interests in a total net generating capacity of approximately 2,845 mw that fall within reliability regions that are not under the jurisdiction of an established rto or iso, including 2,224 mw within the western electricity coordinating council. although each rto and iso may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. neer has operations that fall within the following rtos and isos: 16 table of contents neer competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generation facilities, and, at december 31, 2017 , approximately 89% of neer's net generating capacity was committed under long-term contracts. where long-term contracts are not in effect, neer sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. in such cases, neer will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically of less than three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, serve to protect a portion of the revenue that neer expects to derive from the associated generation facility. contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under gaap are referred to as non-qualifying hedges for adjusted earnings purposes. see management's discussion - overview - adjusted earnings. certain facilities within the neer wind and solar generation portfolio produce recs and other environmental attributes which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts, or may be sold separately for the wind and solar generation not sold under long-term contracts. the purchasing party is solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes. while the majority of neer's revenue is derived from the output of its generation facilities, neer is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and fuel products and services to a variety of customers. in the full requirements service, typically, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day, at a fixed price, for a predetermined period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for neer. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. neer seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities. neer regulation the energy markets in which neer operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, as the case may be, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. at december 31, 2017 , neer had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the u.s. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the public utility holding company act of 2005, which represent approximately 99% of neer's net generating capacity in the u.s. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. neer's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, fossil fuels, solar and nuclear facilities. while projects with exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. additionally, most of the neer facilities located in the u.s. are subject to ferc regulations and market rules and the nerc's mandatory reliability standards, all of its facilities are subject to environmental laws and the epa's environmental regulations, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. see fpl - fpl regulation for additional discussion of ferc, nerc, nrc and epa regulations. with the exception of facilities located in ercot, the ferc has jurisdiction over various aspects of neer's business in the u.s., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas projects and major electricity policy initiatives. the public utility commission of texas has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over neer facilities located in ercot. neer and its affiliates are also subject to federal and provincial or regional regulations in canada and spain related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. in canada, activities related to owning and operating wind and solar projects and participating in wholesale and retail energy markets are regulated at the provincial level. in ontario, for example, electricity generation facilities must be licensed by the ontario energy board and may also be required to complete registrations and maintain market participant status with the independent electricity system operator, in which case they must agree to be bound by and comply with the provisions of the market rules for the ontario electricity market as well as the mandatory reliability standards of the nerc. in addition, neer is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the nee environmental matters section below. in order to better anticipate potential regulatory changes, neer continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. 17 table of contents neer employees neer and its subsidiaries had approximately 5,200 employees at december 31, 2017 . certain subsidiaries of neer have collective bargaining agreements with the ibew, the utility workers union of america, the security police and fire professionals of america and the international union of operating engineers, which collectively represent approximately 17% of neer's employees. the collective bargaining agreements have three- to five-year terms and expire between late february 2018 and 2021. nee environmental matters nee and fpl are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. the u.s. government and certain states and regions, as well as the government of canada and its provinces, have taken and continue to take certain actions, such as proposing and finalizing regulation or setting targets or goals, regarding the regulation and reduction of ghg emissions and the increase of renewable energy generation. numerous environmental regulations also affecting fpl, neer and certain other subsidiaries relate to threatened and endangered species and their habitats, as well as other avian and bat species. complying with these environmental laws and regulations could result in, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. the impact of complying with current environmental laws and regulations has not had, and, along with compliance with proposed regulations as currently written, is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the financial statements of nee and fpl. as permitted by the environmental clause, fpl expects to seek recovery for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. website access to sec filings nee and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on nee's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information and materials available on nee's website (or any of its subsidiaries' or affiliates' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined form 10-k. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. 18 table of contents executive officers of nee (a) name age position effective date miguel arechabala 57 executive vice president, power generation division of nee executive vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2014 deborah h. caplan 55 executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of nee executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of fpl april 15, 2013 terrell kirk crews, ii 39 vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of nee september 19, 2016 paul i. cutler 58 treasurer of nee treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of nee february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 joseph t. kelliher 57 executive vice president, federal regulatory affairs of nee may 18, 2009 john w. ketchum 47 executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of nee executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl march 4, 2016 manoochehr k. nazar 63 president nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of nee president nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of fpl may 23, 2014 may 30, 2014 armando pimentel, jr. 55 president and chief executive officer of neer october 5, 2011 james l. robo 55 chairman, president and chief executive officer of nee chairman of fpl december 13, 2013 may 2, 2012 charles e. sieving 45 executive vice president &amp; general counsel of nee executive vice president of fpl december 1, 2008 january 1, 2009 eric e. silagy 52 president and chief executive officer of fpl may 30, 2014 william l. yeager 59 executive vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain of nee executive vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain of fpl january 1, 2013 ______________________ (a) information is as of february 16, 2018 . executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his/her present position for five years or more and his/her employment history is continuous. mr. arechabala was president of nextera energy espa a, s.l., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of nee, from february 2010 to december 2013. ms. caplan was vice president and chief operating officer of fpl from may 2011 to april 2013. mr. crews served as nee's vice president, finance from april 2016 to september 2016. from july 2015 to april 2016, he was a partner in the national office of deloitte &amp; touche llp (deloitte); from june 2013 to june 2015, he served as a professional accounting fellow in the office of the chief accountant of the sec; and from june 2010 to june 2013, he was an audit service senior manager at deloitte. mr. ketchum served as nee's senior vice president, finance from february 2015 to march 2016, and senior vice president, business management and finance from december 2013 to february 2015. from december 2012 to december 2013, he was senior vice president, business management of neer. mr. nazar has been chief nuclear officer of nee and fpl since january 2010 and was executive vice president, nuclear division of nee and fpl from january 2010 to may 2014. mr. robo has been president and chief executive officer of nee since july 2012 and was the chief executive officer of fpl from may 2012 to may 2014. mr. silagy has been president of fpl since december 2011. 19 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to nee's and fpl's business the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of nee and fpl. these risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or that are currently believed to not be material to the business, may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl and may cause actual results of nee and fpl to differ substantially from those that nee or fpl currently expects or seeks. in that event, the market price for the securities of nee or fpl could decline. accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that nee and fpl file with the sec. regulatory, legislative and legal risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. the operations of nee and fpl are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. this extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, nee's and fpl's industries, businesses, rates and cost structures, operation and licensing of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, natural gas, oil and other fuel transportation, processing and storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. in their business planning and in the management of their operations, nee and fpl must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. fpl is an electric utility subject to the jurisdiction of the fpsc over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers and fuel for its plant operations, issuances of securities, and aspects of the siting, construction and operation of its generation plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that fpl is permitted to earn on invested capital. the regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in florida and elsewhere, limits or could otherwise adversely impact fpl's earnings. the regulatory process also does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels, or that fpl will be permitted to earn an acceptable return on capital investments it wishes to make. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. certain other subsidiaries of nee are transmission utilities subject to the jurisdiction of their regulators and are subject to similar risks. regulatory decisions that are important to nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. the local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on fpsc decisions with negative consequences for fpl. these decisions may require, for example, fpl to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. certain other subsidiaries of nee are subject to similar risks. fpl's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the fpsc. the fpsc engages in an annual prudence review of fpl's use of derivative instruments in its risk management fuel procurement program and should it find any such use to be imprudent, the fpsc could deny cost recovery for such use by fpl. such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support utility scale renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax laws, policies and incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of 20 table of contents renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer depends heavily on government policies that support utility scale renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which neer operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. the federal government, a majority of the 50 u.s. states and portions of canada and spain provide incentives, such as tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, that support or are designed to support the sale of energy from utility scale renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. as a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their laws and policies that support renewable energy and consider actions that would make the laws and policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support renewable energy or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations, interpretations or other regulatory initiatives. nee's and fpl's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, new or revised laws, including international trade laws, regulations, interpretations and other regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and regulation of environmental matters, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. changes in the nature of the regulation of nee's and fpl's business could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on nee and fpl, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. fpl has limited competition in the florida market for retail electricity customers. any changes in florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the florida retail electricity market, such as government incentives that facilitate the installation of solar generation facilities on residential or other rooftops at below cost or that are otherwise subsidized by non-participants, or would permit third-party sales of electricity, could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be no assurance that fpl will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer is subject to ferc rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. nee cannot predict the impact of changing ferc rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond nee's control. there can be no assurance that neer will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any other changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's otc financial derivatives are subject to rules implementing the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and similar international regulations that are designed to promote transparency, mitigate systemic risk and protect against market abuse. nee and fpl cannot predict the impact any proposed or not fully implemented final rules will have on their ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks or on otc derivatives markets as a whole, but such rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities. nee and fpl are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require nee and fpl to limit or eliminate certain operations. nee and fpl are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws, regulations and other standards, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, soil quality, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 , waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and rps, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. 21 table of contents there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new requirements and stricter or more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. for example, among other new, potential or pending changes are state and federal regulation of the use of hydraulic fracturing or similar technologies to drill for natural gas and related compounds used by nee's gas infrastructure business. violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose nee and fpl to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. proceedings could include, for example, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements. nee's and fpl's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 and methane, from electric generation units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. the potential effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on nee's and fpl's electric generation units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. while nee's and fpl's electric generation units emit greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the u.s. electric generation sector, the results of operations of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state laws or regulations impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; make some of nee's and fpl's electric generation units uneconomical to operate in the long term; require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. there can be no assurance that nee or fpl would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. extensive federal regulation of the operations and businesses of nee and fpl exposes nee and fpl to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. nee's and fpl's operations and businesses are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on their operations and businesses. additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. as an example, under the energy policy act of 2005, nee and fpl, as owners and operators of bulk-power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject nee and fpl to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if fpl or nee is found not to be in compliance with these standards, it may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including but not limited to changes in corporate income tax rates, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including changes in corporate income tax rates, the financial condition and results of operations of nee and fpl, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. these factors, including the ultimate resolution of income tax matters, may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 22 table of contents nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings in which nee is involved or other future legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, class action lawsuits, may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. operational risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if nee and fpl do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. nee's and fpl's ability to proceed with projects under development and to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, native american and aboriginal groups, lessors, joint venture partners and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. if any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or otherwise be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may be available, and nee and fpl could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write off all or a portion of their investment in the project. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. nee and fpl own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generation and transmission facilities and natural gas transmission facilities. a key component of nee's and fpl's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. as part of these operations, nee and fpl must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. should nee or fpl be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on nee or fpl, nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements or other agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at higher prices. uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining nee's and fpl's facilities include, but are not limited to: risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, icing events, floods, earthquakes and droughts; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires, leaks or other major events, of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines; availability of replacement equipment; risks of property damage or human injury from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires, leaks or other events; 23 table of contents availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; inability to identify, manage properly or mitigate equipment defects in nee's and fpl's facilities; use of new or unproven technology; risks associated with dependence on a specific type of fuel or fuel source, such as commodity price risk, availability of adequate fuel supply and transportation, and lack of available alternative fuel sources; increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply, shifting demand and regulatory changes; and insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities, as well as the need for energy-related commodities such as natural gas. customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of nee and fpl, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. a lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity or natural gas and other fuels may cause nee and fpl to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. in addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, icing events and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of fuel and water, and require nee and fpl to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. furthermore, nee's and fpl's physical plants could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to fpl, a change in sea level. fpl operates in the east and lower west coasts of florida, an area that historically has been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. a disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent nee and fpl from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. at fpl and other businesses of nee where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generation facilities, including, but not limited to, neer's wind and solar facilities. for example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generation facilities. because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, neer's results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and nee's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. to the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt nee's and fpl's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. there have been cyber attacks on energy infrastructure such as substations, gas pipelines and related assets in the past and there may be such attacks in the future. nee's and fpl's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or otherwise be materially adversely affected by, such activities. terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other similar events affecting nee's and fpl's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which nee and fpl rely, could harm nee's and fpl's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power, natural gas or other energy-related commodities by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generation, distribution or transmission facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. these events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in 24 table of contents revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), significant fines and penalties, and reputational damage, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair nee's and fpl's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). in addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. such events or actions may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. nee's and fpl's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to nee and fpl. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. if insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, nee or fpl may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. nee and fpl generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. for example, fpl is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but would instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the fpsc, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. a loss for which nee or fpl is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee invests in gas and oil producing and transmission assets through neer's gas infrastructure business. the gas infrastructure business is exposed to fluctuating market prices of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil and other energy commodities. a prolonged period of low gas and oil prices could impact neer's gas infrastructure business and cause neer to delay or cancel certain gas infrastructure projects and for certain existing projects to be impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. natural gas and oil prices are affected by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, political instability, conflicts, new discoveries, technological advances, economic conditions and actions by major oil-producing countries. there can be significant volatility in market prices for gas and oil, and price fluctuations could have a material effect on the financial performance of gas and oil producing and transmission assets. for example, in a low gas and oil price environment, neer would generate less revenue from its gas infrastructure investments in gas and oil producing properties, and as a result certain investments might become less profitable or incur losses. prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices could also result in oil and gas production and transmission projects to be delayed or cancelled or to experience lower returns, and for certain projects to become impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. if supply costs necessary to provide neer's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. the supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. neer may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, neer's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the commodity risks within its portfolios could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. nee's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures, based on factors that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, nee's control, may materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 25 table of contents reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of nee to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect nee's results of operations. nee is an active participant in energy markets. the liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in nee's ability to manage risks in these operations. market liquidity is driven in part by the number of active market participants, which has declined in recent years as some banks and other financial institutions have withdrawn from power marketing. liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. nee and fpl have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. nee and fpl are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks, including, without limitation, employee misconduct. if such procedures and tools are not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, nee's and fpl's risk management tools associated with their hedging and trading procedures may not protect against significant losses. nee's and fpl's risk management tools and metrics associated with their hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, nee and fpl are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against material adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, fpl's and neer's ability to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. fpl and neer depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond fpl's and neer's control (such as severe weather or a generation or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt the ability of fpl and neer to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. nee and fpl are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may adversely affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with nee and fpl. for example, the prolonged downturn in oil and natural gas prices has adversely affected the financial stability of a number of enterprises in the energy industry, including some with which nee does business. if any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, nee and fpl may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in material financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. if a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, nee and fpl may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if nee or fpl is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. nee and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the otc markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for nee to engage in trading and marketing activities. any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. similarly, any requirement for fpl or nee to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. these risks may be increased during periods of adverse market or economic conditions affecting the industries in which nee participates. 26 table of contents nee and fpl are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite nee's and fpl's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. if nee's or fpl's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised and nee and fpl could be unable to fulfill critical business functions. nee's and fpl's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. due to the size, scope, complexity and geographical reach of nee's and fpl's business, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process information is critical and challenging. nee's and fpl's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, their control, such as operator error, severe weather, terrorist activities or cyber incidents. any such failure or disabling event could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues and the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. nee and fpl also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. nee's and fpl's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in a material adverse impact to their reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee's and fpl's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. if a significant breach occurred, the reputation of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. nee and fpl would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or nee and fpl could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in otc markets. nee and fpl execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the otc markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. transactions executed in otc markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. as a result, nee and fpl may not be able to execute desired otc transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment and use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity. from time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting nee and fpl. adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from nee's and fpl's business. 27 table of contents addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of nee and fpl, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with their respective regulators. it may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. the direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in florida. fpl must negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of fpl's revenues. if fpl is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and fpl may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these consequences could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. nee is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry in general. in addition, nee may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. nuclear generation risks the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack or cyber incident and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. nee and fpl maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in nee's and fpl's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. if nee or fpl is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of fpl, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. in the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, nee and fpl could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the price-anderson act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. in accordance with this act, nee maintains the maximum amount of private liability insurance obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides liability insurance coverage for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. under the secondary financial protection system, nee is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums, plus any applicable taxes, for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident. such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require nee and fpl to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities and/or result in reduced revenues. 28 table of contents the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of new nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a nuclear generation facility, depending upon the nrc's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. any of the foregoing events could require nee and fpl to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. any serious nuclear incident occurring at a nee or fpl plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. an incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the nrc to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, or on certain types of nuclear generation units, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. the inability to operate any of nee's or fpl's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if any of nee's or fpl's nuclear generation facilities are not operated for any reason through the life of their respective operating licenses, nee or fpl may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. if planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, nee's and fpl's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications as well as to replace equipment. in the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. liquidity, capital requirements and common stock risks disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of nee and fpl. nee and fpl rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets could increase nee's and fpl's cost of capital and affect their ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives. if nee or fpl is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. although nee's competitive energy and certain other subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific or other financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. the inability of nee's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, neech and nep and their respective subsidiaries, to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific or other financing for electric generation or other facilities or acquisitions on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by nee and/or neech in the future. the inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific or other financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. such an occurrence also could result in nee expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. any of these actions could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for nee or its subsidiaries. 29 table of contents nee's, neech's and fpl's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of nee and fpl to grow their business, and increase interest costs. the inability of nee, neech and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could materially adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact nee's and fpl's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. in addition, certain agreements and guarantee arrangements would require posting of additional collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade. some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, nee's overall business mix and political, legislative and regulatory actions. there can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of nee, neech and fpl will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. nee's and fpl's liquidity may be impaired if their credit providers are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. the inability of nee's, neech's and fpl's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require nee, neech or fpl, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity. poor market performance and other economic factors could affect nee's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and prospects. nee sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of nee and its subsidiaries. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. nee's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since, as interest rates decrease the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of nee's and fpl's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee and fpl are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. certain of nee's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may materially adversely affect nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee holds certain investments where changes in the fair value affect nee's financial results. in some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. this type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. a sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to nee. nee is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. substantially all of nee's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. nee's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to nee. nee's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide nee with funds for its payment obligations. the subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can provide nee with funds. in addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, nee's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. the dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. the future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of nee's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. 30 table of contents nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if nee is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. nee guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than fpl, through guarantee agreements with neech. these guarantees may require nee to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when nee is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect nee's ability to meet its financial obligations or to pay dividends. nep may not be able to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to consummate future acquisitions and on the value of nee's limited partner interest in nep opco. nee understands that nep expects, from time to time, to finance acquisitions of clean energy projects partially or wholly through the issuance of additional securities. nep needs to be able to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. nep's ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other factors, the overall state of the capital markets and investor appetite for investment in clean energy projects in general and nep's common or preferred units in particular. an inability to obtain capital markets financing on commercially reasonable terms could significantly limit nep's ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy. furthermore there may not be sufficient availability under nep opco's subsidiaries' revolving credit facility or other financing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. an inability to obtain the required or desired financing could significantly limit nep's ability to consummate acquisitions and effectuate its growth strategy. if financing is available, it may be available only on terms that could significantly increase nep's interest expense, impose additional or more restrictive covenants and reduce cash distributions to its unitholders. nep's inability to effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on nep's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders. through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, nee owns a limited partner interest in nep opco. nep's inability to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms and effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on nep's ability to grow its cash distributions to its common unitholders, including nee, and on the value of nee's limited partnership interest in nep opco. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of nee's common stock. the market price and trading volume of nee's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of nee and its subsidiaries. as a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of nee's common stock. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on nee's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause nee's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of nee and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and nee and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nee is one of the largest electric power and energy infrastructure companies in north america and a leader in the renewable energy industry. nee has two principal businesses, fpl and neer. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. fpl's strategic focus is centered on investing in generation, transmission and distribution facilities to continue to deliver on its value proposition of low bills, high reliability, outstanding customer service and clean energy solutions for the benefit of its more than five million customers. neer is the world's largest generator of renewable energy from the wind and sun. neer's strategic focus is centered on the development, construction and operation of long-term contracted assets throughout the u.s. and canada, including renewable generation facilities, natural gas pipelines and battery storage projects. in january 2019, nee completed the acquisition of gulf power, a rate-regulated electric utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in northwest florida. see gulf power below. as described in more detail in the following sections, nee seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors. nee's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both fpl and neer. management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities available to it; however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by fpl and neer is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise and recognizes that each business contributes to nee's financial strength in different ways. fpl and neer share a common platform with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses. nee and its subsidiaries continue to develop and implement enterprise-wide initiatives focused on improving productivity, process effectiveness and quality. nee, which employed approximately 14,300 people at december 31, 2018 , was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida. during 2018 , nee conducted its operations principally through its two wholly owned subsidiaries, fpl and neer, which also constituted nee's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. neech, another wholly owned subsidiary of nee, owns and provides funding for neer's and nee's operating subsidiaries, other than fpl. nep was formed in 2014. nep acquires, manages and owns contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows. see neer section below for further discussion of nep, including changes to its governance structure, which resulted in the deconsolidation of nep in january 2018. 4 table of contents fpl fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925 and is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in florida. in july 2018, fpl acquired a retail gas business (see note 8 - other). fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. at december 31, 2018 , fpl had approximately 24,500 mw of net generating capacity, approximately 75,200 circuit miles of transmission and distribution lines and 645 substations. fpl provides service to its electric customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers. at december 31, 2018 , fpl served more than ten million people through more than five million customer accounts. fpl's service territory, which covers most of the east and lower west coasts of florida, and plant locations at december 31, 2018 were as follows (see fpl sources of generation below): 5 table of contents customers and revenue fpl's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within florida. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues and customer accounts by customer class were as follows: for both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that fpl may charge are approved by regulatory bodies, by the fpsc in the case of retail customers and by the ferc in the case of wholesale customers. in general, under u.s. and florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. since the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed, there can be no guarantee that fpl will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates. see fpl regulation below. fpl seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low-cost position, including the implementation of ideas generated from cost savings initiatives. a common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the price of 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer. fpl's 2018 average bill for 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was well below both the average of reporting electric utilities within florida and the july 2018 national average (the latest date for which this data is available) as indicated below: 6 table of contents franchise agreements and competition fpl's service to its electric retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and fpl has the right to offer electric service to residents. fpl currently holds 184 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2048. these franchise agreements cover approximately 88% of fpl's retail customer base in florida. fpl also provides service to 11 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility. fpl relies upon florida law for access to public rights of way. because any customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, fpl effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. as a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since fpl's cost of service is lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. changing technology, economic conditions and other factors could alter the favorable relative cost position that fpl currently enjoys; however, fpl seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of low customer bills, high reliability and outstanding customer service. in addition to self-generation by residential, commercial and industrial customers, fpl also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources. in each of 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , operating revenues from wholesale and industrial electric customers combined represented approximately five percent of fpl's total operating revenues. for the building of new steam and solar generating capacity of 75 mw or greater, the fpsc requires investor-owned electric utilities, including fpl, to issue a request for proposal (rfp) except when the fpsc determines that an exception from the rfp process is in the public interest. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. fpl sources of generation at december 31, 2018 , fpl's resources for serving load consisted of approximately 24,624 mw, of which 24,510 mw were from fpl-owned facilities and 114 mw were available through purchased power agreements. fpl owned and operated 30 units that used fossil fuels, primarily natural gas, with generating capacity of 19,542 mw and had a joint ownership interest in 1 out-of-state coal unit, which it does not operate, with net generating capacity of 634 mw. in addition, fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated, 4 nuclear units with net generating capacity totaling 3,479 mw (see nuclear operations below) and owned and operated 13 solar generation facilities with generating capacity totaling 855 mw (excluding 75 mw of non-incremental solar capability which is provided through a natural gas generation facility). fpl customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. fpl is in the process of constructing a new approximately 1,750 mw natural gas combined-cycle unit as discussed in fpl regulation - fpl electric rate regulation - base rates - rates effective january 2017 through december 2020. in addition, fpl is in the process of modernizing two generating units at its lauderdale facility to a high-efficiency, clean-burning natural gas unit (dania beach clean energy center). the dania beach clean energy center is expected to provide approximately 1,200 mw of generating capacity and to be in service in 2022. 7 table of contents fuel sources fpl relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generation facilities, the ability of some of its generation facilities to operate on both natural gas and oil, and on purchased power to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix in order to respond to market and industry developments. *oil is less than 1% *oil is less than 1% significant fuel and transportation contracts. at december 31, 2018 , fpl had the following significant fuel and transportation contracts in place: fpl has firm transportation contracts with seven different transportation suppliers for natural gas pipeline capacity for an aggregate maximum quantity of 2,769,000 mmbtu/day currently, of which 1,969,000 mmbtu/day have expiration dates ranging from 2019 to 2036. the remaining 800,000 mmbtu/day increases to 1,200,000 mmbtu/day starting in mid-2020 through 2042. see note 15 - contracts. fpl has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from march 2019 through 2033. additionally, fpl enters into short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. nuclear operations at december 31, 2018 , fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the four nuclear units in florida discussed below. fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. facility fpl's ownership (mw) beginning of next scheduled refueling outage operating license expiration date st. lucie unit no. 1 981 september 2019 2036 st. lucie unit no. 2 840 (a) february 2020 2043 turkey point unit no. 3 837 march 2020 2032 (b) turkey point unit no. 4 821 march 2019 2033 (b) ______________________ (a) excludes 147 mw operated by fpl but owned by non-affiliates. (b) in january 2018, fpl filed an application with the nrc to renew the operating licenses for turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 for an additional 20 years, which license renewals are pending. nrc regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the existing operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. current plans provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be shut down in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 commencing in 2043. 8 table of contents fpl's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel that is generated at these facilities through license expiration. fpl energy marketing and trading fpl's energy marketing &amp; trading division (emt) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the physical and financial risks inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 4. fpl regulation fpl's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following: the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things; the ferc, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of generation, transmission and other facilities, transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce, proposals to build and operate interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things; the nerc, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the ferc, to ensure the reliability of the u.s. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts; the nrc, which has jurisdiction over the operation of nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders; and the epa, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws, in some cases delegating authority to state agencies. the epa also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts. fpl electric rate regulation the fpsc sets rates at a level that is intended to allow fpl the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to fpl's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. base rates . in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are established, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the fpsc's determination of fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed return on common equity. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that any regulatory roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings. proceedings can occur at the initiative of fpl or upon action by the fpsc. base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the fpsc. rates effective january 2017 through december 2020 - in december 2016, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2016 rate agreement). key elements of the 2016 rate agreement, which is effective from january 2017 through at least december 2020, include, among other things, the following: new retail base rates and charges were established resulting in the following increases in annualized retail base revenues: $400 million beginning january 1, 2017; $211 million beginning january 1, 2018; and $200 million when a new approximately 1,750 mw natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit in okeechobee county, florida (okeechobee clean energy center) achieves commercial operation, which is expected to occur in mid-2019. in addition, fpl is eligible to receive, subject to conditions specified in the 2016 rate agreement, base rate increases associated with the addition of up to 300 mw annually of new solar generation in each of 2017 through 2020 and may carry forward any unused mw to subsequent years during the term of the 2016 rate agreement. to date, approximately 900 mw of new solar generating capacity has become operational, 600 mw during the first quarter of 2018 and 300 mw during the first quarter of 2019. an additional 300 mw is expected to be operational in 2020. fpl will be required to demonstrate that any proposed solar facilities are cost effective and scheduled to be in service before december 31, 2021. fpl has agreed to an installed 9 table of contents cost cap of $1,750 per kw. fpl's allowed regulatory roe is 10.55%, with a range of 9.60% to 11.60%. if fpl's earned regulatory roe falls below 9.60%, fpl may seek retail base rate relief. if the earned regulatory roe rises above 11.60%, any party other than fpl may seek a review of fpl's retail base rates. subject to certain conditions, fpl may amortize, over the term of the 2016 rate agreement, up to $1.0 billion of depreciation reserve surplus plus the reserve amount that remained under fpl's 2012 rate agreement discussed below (approximately $250 million), provided that in any year of the 2016 rate agreement fpl must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.60% earned regulatory roe but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory roe in excess of 11.60%. future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. if storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, fpl may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover amounts above $400 million. see note 1 - storm fund and storm reserve. fpl was impacted by hurricane irma in september 2017 which resulted in damage throughout much of fpl's service territory. damage to fpl property from the hurricane was primarily limited to the transmission and distribution systems. in december 2017, following the enactment of tax reform as further discussed in note 6, fpl determined that it would not seek recovery of hurricane irma storm restoration costs of approximately $1.3 billion through a storm surcharge from customers and, as a result, the regulatory asset associated with hurricane irma was written off in december 2017 as storm restoration costs in nee's and fpl's consolidated statements of income. as allowed under the 2016 rate agreement, fpl used available reserve amortization to offset nearly all of the expense, and plans to partially restore the reserve amortization through tax savings generated during the term of the 2016 rate agreement. in february 2018, the fpsc opened separate dockets for fpl and several other utilities in florida to address the impacts of tax reform. in december 2018, the state of florida office of public counsel (opc), the florida retail federation (frf) and the florida industrial power users group (collectively, joint petitioners) filed with the fpsc a petition regarding fpl's retail rates that were established pursuant to the 2016 rate agreement. the joint petitioners assert that fpl may not continue to use the reserve amortization mechanism and, based on that assertion, they request, among other things, that fpl refund up to $736.8 million annually related to cost savings created by tax reform and that new permanent base rates be established for fpl to reflect the tax cost savings associated with tax reform and other factors, including a lower regulatory roe of 9.6% and a lower equity ratio of 55.0%. fpl believes that the actions it took as a result of tax reform are in accordance with the 2016 rate agreement and that the petition is a violation of the 2016 rate agreement on the part of the opc and frf who were signatories to that agreement. oral argument in the tax reform docket is expected to be held in april 2019. an fpsc decision regarding the amount of tax savings and whether fpl may continue to use the reserve amortization mechanism is expected by mid-may 2019. rates effective january 2013 through december 2016 - effective january 2013, pursuant to an fpsc final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement), new retail base rates and charges for fpl were established resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of $350 million on an annualized basis. the 2012 rate agreement provided for, among other things, the following: a regulatory roe of 10.50% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points; an increase in annualized base revenue requirements as each of three fpl modernized power plants became operational in april 2013, april 2014 and april 2016; the continuation of cost recovery through the capacity clause (reported as retail base revenues) for a generating unit which was placed in service in may 2011 (beginning january 2017, under the 2016 rate agreement, cost recovery is through base rates); subject to certain conditions, the right to reduce depreciation expense up to $400 million (reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, fpl was required to amortize enough reserve to maintain an earned regulatory roe within the range of 9.50% to 11.50% (the reserve amount was reduced by $30 million to up to $370 million as a result of a settlement in august 2015 related to the acquisition of a 250 mw coal-fired generation facility located in jacksonville, florida, which fpl retired in december 2016); an interim cost recovery mechanism for storm restoration costs (see note 1 - storm fund and storm reserve); and an incentive mechanism whereby customers receive 100% of certain gains, including but not limited to, gains from the purchase and sale of electricity and natural gas (including transportation and storage), up to a specified threshold; gains exceeding that specified threshold were shared by fpl and its customers. cost recovery clauses . cost recovery clauses are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through various clauses. cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class. these cost recovery clause charges are calculated annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. fpl recovers costs from customers through the following clauses: 10 table of contents fuel - primarily fuel costs, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses in terms of operating revenues (see note 1 - rate regulation); capacity - primarily certain costs associated with the acquisition of several electric generation facilities (see note 1 - rate regulation); energy conservation - costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs; and environmental - certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 and costs associated with three of fpl's solar facilities placed in service prior to 2016. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. these costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. ferc the federal power act grants the ferc exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce. pursuant to the federal power act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the ferc which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of ferc-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. the federal power act also gives the ferc authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to establish and independently enforce mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system. see nerc below. electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the ferc. the ferc also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates. nerc the nerc has been certified by the ferc as the national electric reliability organization. the nerc's mandate is to ensure the reliability and security of the north american bulk-power system through the establishment and enforcement of reliability standards approved by ferc. the nerc's regional entities also enforce reliability standards approved by the ferc. fpl is subject to these reliability standards and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them. fpl environmental regulation fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the nee environmental matters section below. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. fpl employees fpl had approximately 9,100 employees at december 31, 2018 , with approximately 32% of these employees represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew), substantially all of which are under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2020. neer neer, a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware, was formed in 1998 to aggregate nee's competitive energy businesses. neer is a diversified clean energy company with a business strategy that emphasizes the development, construction and operation of long-term contracted assets with a focus on renewable projects. through its subsidiaries, neer currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generation facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the u.s., as well as in canada and spain. neer, with approximately 21,000 mw of total net generating capacity at december 31, 2018 , is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., with approximately 20,400 mw of net generating capacity across 36 states, and has 500 mw of net generating capacity in 4 canadian provinces and 99.8 mw of net generating capacity in spain. at december 31, 2018 , neer operates facilities with a total generating capacity of 23,500 mw. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. neer is the world's largest generator of renewable energy from the wind and sun based on 2018 mwh produced on a net generation basis. neer develops and constructs battery storage projects, which when combined with its renewable projects, serve to enhance its ability to meet customer needs for a nearly firm generation source. neer also owned and operated approximately 185 substations and 1,135 circuit miles of transmission lines at december 31, 2018 . neer also engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, primarily to hedge the production from its generation assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements. these contracts primarily include power and gas commodities and their related products, as well as provide full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offer customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers. in addition, neer participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production primarily through non-operating ownership interests, and in pipeline infrastructure development, construction, management and 11 table of contents operations, through either wholly owned subsidiaries or noncontrolling or joint venture interests, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business. neer also hedges the expected output from its gas infrastructure production assets to protect against price movements. nep - nep was formed in 2014 to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable long-term cash flows through a limited partner interest in nep opco. nep's projects include energy projects contributed by neer to nep opco in connection with nep's initial public offering in july 2014 as well as additional energy projects acquired thereafter. through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, nee owns 101,440,000 common units of nep opco representing a noncontrolling interest in nep's operating projects of approximately 64.4% at december 31, 2018 . nep was deconsolidated from nee for financial reporting purposes in january 2018 as a result of changes made to nep's governance structure during 2017 that, among other things, enhanced nep common unitholder governance rights. the new governance structure established a nep board of directors, which elected board members commenced service in january 2018. subsequent to deconsolidation, nee began reflecting its ownership interest in nep as an equity method investment with its earnings from nep as equity in earnings of equity method investees and accounting for neer's asset sales to nep as third-party sales in its consolidated financial statements. see note 1 - nextera energy partners, lp. prior to the deconsolidation, nee owned a controlling general partner interest in nep and consolidated nep. at december 31, 2018 , nep owned, or had an interest in, a portfolio of 31 wind and solar projects throughout the u.s. with generating capacity totaling approximately 4,720 mw and membership interests in a portfolio of seven intrastate long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets located in texas (texas pipelines) as further discussed in generation and other operations. neer operates substantially all of the energy projects in nep's portfolio and its ownership interest in the portfolio's generating capacity was approximately 3,039 mw at december 31, 2018 . in addition in 2015, nep opco issued 2 million nep opco class b units to neer in exchange for an approximately 50% ownership interest in three solar projects with a total generating capacity of 277 mw. neer, as holder of the class b units, will retain 100% of the economic interests if, and until, neer offers to sell the economic interests to nep and nep accepts such offer. nep opco has a right of first offer for certain of neer's assets (rofo assets) if neer should seek to sell the assets. the rofo assets consist of contracted wind and solar projects with a combined generating capacity of approximately 1,056 mw at december 31, 2018 . in addition, neer and its subsidiaries (other than nep opco and its subsidiaries) have a right of first refusal on any proposed sale of any of the nep opco assets. generation and other operations neer sells products associated with its own generation facilities (energy, capacity, renewable energy credits (recs) and ancillary services) in competitive markets in regions where those facilities are located. customer transactions may be supplied from neer generation facilities or from purchases in the wholesale markets, or from a combination thereof. see markets and competition below. 12 table of contents at december 31, 2018 , neer managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its generation projects and all of its natural gas pipeline assets in which it has an ownership interest. at december 31, 2018 , the locations of neer's generation facilities and natural gas pipeline assets in north america in which neer has ownership interests were as follows: generation assets and other operations generation assets. neer's portfolio of generation assets primarily consist of generation facilities with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their capacity and/or energy output. information related to contracted generation assets at december 31, 2018 was as follows: represented approximately 18,938 mw of total net generating capacity; 13 table of contents weighted-average remaining contract term of the power sales agreements and the remaining life of the ptcs associated with repowered wind facilities of approximately 16 years, based on forecasted contributions to earnings and forecasted amounts of electricity produced by the repowered wind facilities; and contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from march 2019 through 2033 (see note 15 - contracts). neer's merchant generation assets primarily consist of a nuclear generation facility and oil-fired generation facilities that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their capacity and/or energy output and therefore require active marketing and hedging. merchant generation assets at december 31, 2018 represented approximately 2,047 mw of total net generating capacity, including 1,102 mw from nuclear generation and 781 mw from oil-fired peak generation facilities, and are primarily located in the northeast region of the u.s. neer utilizes swaps, options, futures and forwards to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. other operations. gas infrastructure business - at december 31, 2018 , neer had ownership interests in the natural gas pipelines discussed below and investments in oil and gas shale formations located primarily in the midwest and south regions of the u.s. miles of pipeline pipeline location/route neer's ownership total capacity (per day) actual/expected in-service dates operational: texas pipelines (a) 542 south texas 61.1% 4.05 bcf 1950 - 2014 sabal trail (b) 517 southwestern alabama to central florida 42.5% 0.83 bcf - 1.075 bcf june 2017 - mid-2021 florida southeast connection (b) 169 central florida to south florida 100% 0.64 bcf june 2017 under construction or in development: mountain valley pipeline (c) 303 northwestern west virginia to southern virginia 31% 2.00 bcf end of 2019 mountain valley pipeline - southgate expansion (d) 73 southern virginia to central north carolina 47.2% 0.3 bcf end of 2020 ______________________ (a) a nep portfolio of seven natural gas pipelines, of which a third party owns a 10% interest in a 120-mile pipeline with a daily capacity of approximately 2.3 bcf. approximately 3.2 bcf per day of capacity is contracted with firm ship-or-pay contracts that have expiration dates ranging from 2020 to 2035. (b) see note 15 - contracts for a discussion of transportation contracts with fpl. (c) completion of construction of the natural gas pipeline is subject to final permitting. also, see note 15 - contracts for a discussion of a transportation contract with a neer subsidiary. (d) construction of the natural gas pipeline is subject to certain conditions, including ferc approval. see note 15 - commitments. customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading - neer provides commodities-related products to customers, engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities and includes the operations of a retail electricity provider. through its subsidiary pmi, neer: manages risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and optimizes the value of neer's power generation and gas infrastructure production assets through the use of swaps, options, futures and forwards; sells output from neer's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures fossil fuel for use by neer's generation fleet; provides full energy and capacity requirements to customers; and markets and trades energy-related commodity products and provides a wide range of electricity and fuel commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to customers. 14 table of contents neer fuel/technology mix neer utilized the following mix of fuel sources for generation facilities in which it has an ownership interest: *oil is less than 1% wind facilities located in 19 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada; operated a total generating capacity of 15,058 mw at december 31, 2018 ; ownership interests in a total net generating capacity of 13,529 mw at december 31, 2018 ; all mw are from contracted wind assets located primarily throughout texas and the west and midwest regions of the u.s. and canada; added approximately 1,406 mw of new generating capacity and repowered wind generating capacity totaling 899 mw in the u.s. in 2018 and sold assets to nep (see note 1 - disposal of a business/assets). solar facilities located in 22 states in the u.s. and 1 province in spain; operated pv and solar thermal facilities with a total generating capacity of 2,322 mw at december 31, 2018 ; ownership interests in pv and solar thermal facilities with a total net generating capacity of 2,313 mw at december 31, 2018 ; essentially all mw are from contracted solar facilities located primarily throughout the west region of the u.s.; added approximately 326 mw of generating capacity in the u.s. in 2018 and sold assets to nep (see note 1 - disposal of a business/assets). fossil facilities operated natural gas generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 2,180 mw at december 31, 2018 ; ownership interests in natural gas generation facilities with a total net generating capacity of 1,639 mw at december 31, 2018 ; approximately 1,481 mw are contracted and 158 mw are merchant; located in 3 states in the northeast region of the u.s. and in florida; added ownership interests in two natural gas generation facilities located in florida with a total generating capacity of approximately 1,451 mw (neer's net generating capacity of 1,219 mw) (see note 8 - other); and operated oil-fired peak generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 878 mw with an ownership or undivided interests in total net generating capacity of 781 mw at december 31, 2018 primarily located in maine. nuclear facilities at december 31, 2018 , neer owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the four nuclear units discussed below. neer's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed 15 table of contents from service for variable lengths of time. facility location neer's ownership (mw) portfolio category next scheduled refueling outage operating license expiration date seabrook new hampshire 1,102 (a) merchant april 2020 2030 (b) duane arnold iowa 431 (c) contracted (d) none (d) 2034 (d) point beach unit no. 1 wisconsin 595 contracted (e) march 2019 2030 point beach unit no. 2 wisconsin 595 contracted (e) march 2020 2033 ______________________ (a) excludes 147 mw operated by neer but owned by non-affiliates. (b) in 2010, neer filed an application with the nrc to renew seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years, which license renewal is pending. (c) excludes 184 mw operated by neer but owned by non-affiliates. (d) neer sells all of its share of the output of duane arnold under an amended long-term contract expiring in december 2020. operations of duane arnold are expected to cease in late 2020, subject to approval by miso. see note 5 - nonrecurring fair value measurements. (e) neer sells all of the output of point beach units nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through their current operating license expiration dates. neer is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly-owned units. nrc regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. in the case of duane arnold, a plan for decontamination and decommissioning is required to be submitted to the nrc no later than 2 years following shutdown of the facility. neer's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel that is generated at these facilities through license expiration or, in the case of duane arnold, through shutdown of the facility. policy incentives for renewable energy projects u.s. federal, state and local governments have established various incentives to support the development of renewable energy projects. these incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, ptcs, itcs, cash grants, tax abatements and rps programs. pursuant to the u.s. federal modified accelerated cost recovery system, wind and solar projects are fully depreciated for tax purposes over a five-year period even though the useful life of such projects is generally much longer than five years. owners of utility-scale wind facilities are eligible to claim an income tax credit (the ptc, or an itc in lieu of the ptc) upon initially achieving commercial operation. the ptc is determined based on the amount of electricity produced by the wind facility during the first ten years of commercial operation. this incentive was created under the energy policy act of 1992 and has been extended several times. alternatively, an itc equal to 30% of the cost of a wind facility may be claimed in lieu of the ptc. owners of solar facilities are eligible to claim a 30% itc for new solar facilities. previously, owners of solar facilities could have elected to receive an equivalent cash payment from the u.s. department of treasury for the value of the 30% itc (convertible itc) for qualifying solar facilities where construction began before the end of 2011 and the facilities were placed in service before 2017. in order to qualify for the ptc (or an itc in lieu of the ptc) for wind or itc for solar, construction of a facility must begin before a specified date and the taxpayer must maintain a continuous program of construction or continuous efforts to advance the project to completion. the internal revenue service (irs) issued guidance stating that the safe harbor for continuous efforts and continuous construction requirements will generally be satisfied if the facility is placed in service no more than four years after the year in which construction of the facility began. the irs also confirmed that retrofitted wind facilities may re-qualify for ptcs or itcs pursuant to the 5% safe harbor for the begin construction requirement, as long as the cost basis of the new investment is at least 80% of the facility's total fair value. tax credits for qualifying wind and solar projects are subject to the following phase-down schedule. year construction of project begins 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 ptc (a) 100 % 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % - - - wind itc (b) 30 % 30 % 24 % 18 % 12 % - - - solar itc (c) 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % 26 % 22 % 10 % _________________________ (a) percentage of the full ptc available for wind projects that begin construction during the applicable year. (b) percentage of eligible project costs that can be claimed as itc by wind projects that begin construction during the applicable year. (c) percentage of eligible project costs that can be claimed as itc by solar projects that begin construction during the applicable year. itc is limited to 10% for solar projects not placed in service before january 1, 2024. other countries, including canada and spain, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. the feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology. 16 table of contents markets and competition electricity markets in the u.s. and canada are regional and diverse in character. all are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. the nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region. generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, neer may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. neer's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities may also be constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing. the degree and nature of competition is different in wholesale markets than in retail markets. during 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , approximately 85% of neer's revenue was derived from wholesale electricity markets. wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. neer primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of neer's generation assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage reliable customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages. wholesale power generation is a regional business that is highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. as such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies neer competes with depending on the market. in wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services. in general, u.s. and canadian electricity markets encompass three classes of services: energy, capacity and ancillary services. energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services that relate to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves. the exact nature of these classes of services is defined in part by regional tariffs. not all regions have a capacity services class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region. rtos and isos exist throughout much of north america to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets. neer operates in all rto and iso jurisdictions. at december 31, 2018 , neer also had generation facilities with ownership interests in a total net generating capacity of approximately 4,110 mw that fall within reliability regions that are not under the jurisdiction of an established rto or iso, including 2,267 mw within the western electricity coordinating council and 1,219 mw within the florida reliability coordinating council. although each rto and iso may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. neer has operations that fall within the following rtos and isos: 17 table of contents neer competes in different regions to differing degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generation facilities. at december 31, 2018 , approximately 90% of neer's net generating capacity was committed under long-term contracts. where long-term contracts are not in effect, neer sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. in such cases, neer will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically of less than three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, serve to protect a portion of the revenue that neer expects to derive from the associated generation facility. contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under gaap are referred to as non-qualifying hedges for adjusted earnings purposes. see management's discussion - overview - adjusted earnings. certain facilities within the neer wind and solar generation portfolio produce recs and other environmental attributes which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts, or may be sold separately for the wind and solar generation not sold under long-term contracts. the purchasing party is solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes. while the majority of neer's revenue is derived from the output of its generation facilities, neer is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and fuel products and services to a variety of customers. in the full requirements service, typically, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day, at a fixed price, for a predetermined period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for neer. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. neer seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities. neer regulation the energy markets in which neer operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, as the case may be, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. at december 31, 2018 , essentially all of neer's operating independent power projects located in the u.s. have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the public utility holding company act of 2005. exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. while projects with exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. additionally, most of the neer facilities located in the u.s. are subject to ferc regulations and market rules and the nerc's mandatory reliability standards, all of its facilities are subject to environmental laws and the epa's environmental regulations, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. see fpl - fpl regulation for additional discussion of ferc, nerc, nrc and epa regulations. with the exception of facilities located in ercot, the ferc has jurisdiction over various aspects of neer's business in the u.s., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas projects and major electricity policy initiatives. the public utility commission of texas has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over neer facilities located in ercot. neer and its affiliates are also subject to federal and provincial or regional regulations in canada and spain related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. in canada, activities related to owning and operating wind and solar projects and participating in wholesale and retail energy markets are regulated at the provincial level. in ontario, for example, electricity generation facilities must be licensed by the ontario energy board and may also be required to complete registrations and maintain market participant status with the independent electricity system operator, in which case they must agree to be bound by and comply with the provisions of the market rules for the ontario electricity market as well as the mandatory reliability standards of the nerc. in addition, neer is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the nee environmental matters section below. in order to better anticipate potential regulatory changes, neer continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. 18 table of contents neer employees neer and its subsidiaries had approximately 5,100 employees at december 31, 2018 . certain subsidiaries of neer have collective bargaining agreements with the ibew, the utility workers union of america, the security police and fire professionals of america and the international union of operating engineers, which collectively represent approximately 17% of neer's employees. the collective bargaining agreements have three- to five-year terms and expire between may 2019 and 2021. gulf power on january 1, 2019, nee completed the previously announced acquisition of all of the outstanding common shares of gulf power under a stock purchase agreement with the southern company dated may 20, 2018, as amended, for approximately $4.47 billion in cash consideration, excluding post-closing working capital adjustments, and the assumption of approximately $1.3 billion of gulf power debt. gulf power was incorporated under the laws of maine in 1925 and became a florida corporation after being domesticated under the laws of florida in 2005. gulf power, a rate-regulated electric utility under the jurisdiction of the fpsc, is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in northwest florida. as of january 1, 2019, gulf power served more than 460,000 customers in eight counties throughout northwest florida and had approximately 2,300 mw of fossil-fueled electric generating capacity and 9,400 miles of transmission and distribution lines located in florida, mississippi and georgia. see note 8 - gulf power company for further discussion. nee environmental matters nee and its subsidiaries, including fpl, are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. the u.s. government and certain states and regions, as well as the government of canada and its provinces, have taken and continue to take certain actions, such as proposing and finalizing regulation or setting targets or goals, regarding the regulation and reduction of ghg emissions and the increase of renewable energy generation. numerous environmental regulations also affecting fpl, neer, gulf power, and certain other subsidiaries relate to threatened and endangered species and/or their habitats, as well as other avian and bat species. the environmental laws in the u.s., including, among others, the endangered species act, the migratory bird treaty act, and the bald and golden eagle protection act, provide for the protection of endangered species of birds and bats and/or their habitats, migratory birds and eagles. complying with these environmental laws and regulations could result in, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. failure to comply could result in fines, penalties, criminal sanctions or injunctions. the impact of complying with current environmental laws and regulations has not had, and, along with compliance with proposed regulations as currently written, is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the financial statements of nee and fpl. nee's rate-regulated subsidiaries expect to seek recovery for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations, which recovery for fpl and gulf power would be through their respective environmental clause. website access to sec filings nee and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on nee's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information and materials available on nee's website (or any of its subsidiaries' or affiliates' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined form 10-k. 19 table of contents executive officers of nee (a) name age position effective date miguel arechabala 57 executive vice president, power generation division of nee executive vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2014 deborah h. caplan 56 executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of nee executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of fpl april 15, 2013 terrell kirk crews, ii (b) 40 vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of nee september 19, 2016 paul i. cutler 59 treasurer of nee treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of nee february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 joseph t. kelliher 58 executive vice president, federal regulatory affairs of nee may 18, 2009 john w. ketchum (b) 48 executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of nee executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl march 4, 2016 manoochehr k. nazar 64 president nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of nee president nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of fpl may 23, 2014 may 30, 2014 armando pimentel, jr. (b) 56 president and chief executive officer of neer october 5, 2011 james l. robo 56 chairman, president and chief executive officer of nee chairman of fpl december 13, 2013 may 2, 2012 charles e. sieving 46 executive vice president &amp; general counsel of nee executive vice president of fpl december 1, 2008 january 1, 2009 eric e. silagy 53 president and chief executive officer of fpl may 30, 2014 william l. yeager 60 executive vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain of nee executive vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain of fpl january 1, 2013 ______________________ (a) information is as of february 15, 2019 . executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his/her present position for five years or more and his/her employment history is continuous. mr. crews served as nee's vice president, finance from april 2016 to september 2016. from july 2015 to april 2016, he was a partner in the national office of deloitte &amp; touche llp (deloitte); and from june 2013 to june 2015, he served as a professional accounting fellow in the office of the chief accountant of the sec. mr. ketchum served as nee's senior vice president, finance from february 2015 to march 2016, and senior vice president, business management and finance from december 2013 to february 2015. mr. nazar has been chief nuclear officer of nee and fpl since january 2010 and was executive vice president, nuclear division of nee and fpl from january 2010 to may 2014. mr. robo has been president and chief executive officer of nee since july 2012 and was the chief executive officer of fpl from may 2012 to may 2014. mr. silagy has been president of fpl since december 2011. (b) the following information was announced january 25, 2019 and is effective march 1, 2019. mr. pimentel will retire as president and chief executive officer of neer. mr. ketchum was appointed president and chief executive officer of neer and will cease to serve as executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of nee and fpl. rebecca kujawa, age 43, was appointed executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of nee and fpl and, in such capacities, will serve as nee's and fpl's principal financial officer. ms. kujawa has served as vice president, business management of neer since march 2012. mr. crews was appointed vice president, business management of neer and will cease to serve as vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of nee. james may, age 42, was appointed vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of nee and, in such capacities, will serve as nee's principal accounting officer. mr. may has served as controller of neer since april 2015 and was director of accounting of neer from july 2013 to april 2015. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to nee's and fpl's business the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of nee and fpl. these risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or that are currently believed to not be material to the business, may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl and may cause actual results of nee and fpl to differ substantially from those that nee or fpl currently expects or seeks. in that event, the market price for the securities of nee or fpl could decline. accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that nee and fpl file with the sec. regulatory, legislative and legal risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. the operations of nee and fpl are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. this extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, nee's and fpl's industry, businesses, rates and cost structures, operation and licensing of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, natural gas, oil and other fuel transportation, processing and storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. in their business planning and in the management of their operations, nee and fpl must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. fpl operates as an electric utility and is subject to the jurisdiction of the fpsc over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers and fuel for its plant operations, issuances of securities, and aspects of the siting, construction and operation of its generation plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that fpl is permitted to earn on invested capital. the regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in florida and elsewhere, limits or could otherwise adversely impact fpl's earnings. the regulatory process also does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels, or that fpl will be permitted to earn an acceptable return on capital investments it wishes to make. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. certain other subsidiaries of nee are utilities subject to the jurisdiction of their regulators and are subject to similar risks. regulatory decisions that are important to nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. the local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on fpsc decisions with negative consequences for fpl. these decisions may require, for example, fpl to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. certain other subsidiaries of nee are subject to similar risks. fpl's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the fpsc. the fpsc engages in an annual prudence review of fpl's use of derivative instruments in its risk management fuel procurement program and should it find any such use to be imprudent, the fpsc could deny cost recovery for such use by fpl. such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support utility scale renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax laws, policies and incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of 21 table of contents renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer depends heavily on government policies that support utility scale renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which neer operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. the federal government, a majority of the u.s. and portions of canada and spain provide incentives, such as tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, that support or are designed to support the sale of energy from utility scale renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. as a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their laws and policies that support renewable energy and consider actions that would make the laws and policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support renewable energy or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations, interpretations or ballot and regulatory initiatives. nee's and fpl's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, new or revised laws, including international trade laws, regulations, interpretations or ballot and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and regulation of environmental matters, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. changes in the nature of the regulation of nee's and fpl's business could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on nee and fpl, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. fpl has limited competition in the florida market for retail electricity customers. any changes in florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the florida retail electricity market, such as government incentives that facilitate the installation of solar generation facilities on residential or other rooftops at below cost or that are otherwise subsidized by non-participants, or would permit third-party sales of electricity, could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be no assurance that fpl will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer is subject to ferc rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. nee cannot predict the impact of changing ferc rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond nee's control. there can be no assurance that neer will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's otc financial derivatives are subject to rules implementing certain provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and similar international regulations. nee and fpl cannot predict the impact any proposed or not fully implemented final rules will have on their ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks or on otc derivatives markets as a whole, but such rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities. nee and fpl are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require nee and fpl to limit or eliminate certain operations. nee and fpl are subject to domestic environmental laws, regulations and other standards, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, soil quality, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 , waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and rps, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict or enjoin the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. certain subsidiaries of nee are also subject to foreign environmental laws, regulations and other standards and, as such, are subject to similar risks. 22 table of contents there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new requirements and stricter or more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose nee and fpl to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, governmental entities and third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. proceedings could include, for example, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements. nee's and fpl's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, co 2 and methane, from electric generation units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. the potential effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on nee's and fpl's electric generation units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. while nee's and fpl's electric generation units emit greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the u.s. electric generation sector, the results of operations of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state laws or regulations impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; make some of nee's and fpl's electric generation units uneconomical to operate in the long term; require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. there can be no assurance that nee or fpl would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. extensive federal regulation of the operations and businesses of nee and fpl exposes nee and fpl to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. nee's and fpl's operations and businesses are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on their operations and businesses. additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. as an example, under the energy policy act of 2005, nee and fpl, as owners and operators of bulk-power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject nee and fpl to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if fpl or nee is found not to be in compliance with these standards, they may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including but not limited to changes in corporate income tax rates, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including changes in corporate income tax rates, the financial condition and results of operations of nee and fpl, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. these factors, including the ultimate resolution of income tax matters, may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. 23 table of contents nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings in which nee or fpl is involved or other future legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. development and operational risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if nee and fpl do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. nee's and fpl's ability to proceed with projects under development and to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, native american and aboriginal groups, lessors, joint venture partners and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. if any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or otherwise be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may be available, and nee and fpl could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write off all or a portion of their investment in the project. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. nee and fpl own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generation and transmission facilities and natural gas transmission facilities. a key component of nee's and fpl's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. as part of these operations, nee and fpl must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. should nee or fpl be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms or resolving third-party challenges to such licenses or permits, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on nee or fpl, nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities, retail gas distribution system in florida and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities, retail gas distribution system in florida and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures or legal claims, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage or loss of life, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements or other agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at higher prices. uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining nee's and fpl's facilities include, but are not limited to: risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, icing events, floods, earthquakes and droughts; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires, leaks or other major events, of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines; availability of replacement equipment; risks of property damage, human injury or loss of life from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires, leaks or other events, especially where facilities are located near populated areas; potential environmental impacts of gas infrastructure operations; availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; 24 table of contents inability to identify, manage properly or mitigate equipment defects in nee's and fpl's facilities; use of new or unproven technology; risks associated with dependence on a specific type of fuel or fuel source, such as commodity price risk, availability of adequate fuel supply and transportation, and lack of available alternative fuel sources; increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply, shifting demand and regulatory changes; and insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities, as well as the need for energy-related commodities such as natural gas. customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of nee and fpl, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. a lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity or natural gas and other fuels may cause nee and fpl to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. in addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, icing events and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of fuel and water, and require nee and fpl to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. furthermore, nee's and fpl's physical plants could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to fpl, a change in sea level. fpl operates in the east and lower west coasts of florida, an area that historically has been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. a disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent nee and fpl from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. at fpl and other businesses of nee where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generation facilities, including, but not limited to, neer's wind and solar facilities. for example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generation facilities. because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, neer's results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and nee's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. to the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt nee's and fpl's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. there have been cyber attacks within the energy industry on energy infrastructure such as substations, gas pipelines and related assets in the past and there may be such attacks in the future. nee's and fpl's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or otherwise be materially adversely affected by, such activities. terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other similar events affecting nee's and fpl's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which nee and fpl rely, could harm nee's and fpl's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power, natural gas or other energy-related commodities, by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generation, distribution or transmission facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. these events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or 25 table of contents acquire insurance), significant fines and penalties, and reputational damage, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair nee's and fpl's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). in addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. such events or actions may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. nee's and fpl's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to nee and fpl. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. if insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, nee or fpl may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. nee and fpl generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. for example, fpl is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but would instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the fpsc, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. a loss for which nee or fpl is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee invests in gas and oil producing and transmission assets through neer's gas infrastructure business. the gas infrastructure business is exposed to fluctuating market prices of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil and other energy commodities. a prolonged period of low gas and oil prices could impact neer's gas infrastructure business and cause neer to delay or cancel certain gas infrastructure projects and could result in certain projects becoming impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. natural gas and oil prices are affected by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, political instability, conflicts, new discoveries, technological advances, economic conditions and actions by major oil-producing countries. there can be significant volatility in market prices for gas and oil, and price fluctuations could have a material effect on the financial performance of gas and oil producing and transmission assets. for example, in a low gas and oil price environment, neer would generate less revenue from its gas infrastructure investments in gas and oil producing properties, and as a result certain investments might become less profitable or incur losses. prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices could also result in the delay or cancellation of oil and gas production and transmission projects, could cause projects to experience lower returns, and could result in certain projects becoming impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. if supply costs necessary to provide neer's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. the supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. neer may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, neer's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the commodity risks within its portfolios could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. nee's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures, based on factors that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, nee's control, may materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 26 table of contents reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of nee to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect nee's results of operations. nee is an active participant in energy markets. the liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in nee's ability to manage risks in these operations. market liquidity is driven in part by the number of active market participants. liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. nee and fpl have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. nee and fpl are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks, including, without limitation, employee misconduct. if such procedures and tools are not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, nee's and fpl's risk management tools associated with their hedging and trading procedures may not protect against significant losses. nee's and fpl's risk management tools and metrics associated with their hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, nee and fpl are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against material adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, the ability for subsidiaries of nee, including fpl, to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. subsidiaries of nee, including fpl, depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond the control of subsidiaries of nee, including fpl, (such as severe weather or a generation or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt their ability to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. nee and fpl are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may adversely affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with nee and fpl. if any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, nee and fpl may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in material financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. if a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, nee and fpl may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if nee or fpl is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. nee and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the otc markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for nee to engage in trading and marketing activities. any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. similarly, any requirement for fpl or nee to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. these risks may be increased during periods of adverse market or economic conditions affecting the industry in which nee and fpl participate. 27 table of contents nee and fpl are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite nee's and fpl's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. if nee's or fpl's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised and nee and fpl could be unable to fulfill critical business functions. nee's and fpl's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. due to the size, scope, complexity and geographical reach of nee's and fpl's business, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process information is critical and challenging. nee's and fpl's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, their control, such as operator error, severe weather, terrorist activities or cyber incidents. any such failure or disabling event could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues and the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. nee and fpl also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. nee's and fpl's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in a material adverse impact to their reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee's and fpl's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. if a significant breach occurred, the reputation of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. nee and fpl would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or nee and fpl could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in otc markets. nee and fpl execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the otc markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. transactions executed in otc markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. as a result, nee and fpl may not be able to execute desired otc transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment and use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity. from time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting nee and fpl. adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from nee's and fpl's business. 28 table of contents addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of nee and fpl, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with regulators. it may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. the direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected if they are unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in florida. subsidiaries of nee, including fpl, may negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of the subsidiary's revenues. if they are unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and they may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these consequences could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the energy industry. nee is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the energy industry in general. in addition, nee may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. nee may not realize the anticipated benefits of the gulf power acquisition, which could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee may not realize the anticipated benefits from the gulf power acquisition, including if the businesses are not integrated successfully or if integration takes longer than anticipated. these risks include potential difficulties in conversion of systems and information, disruption from the acquisition making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, and diversion of management time and attention to integration and other acquisition-related issues. these consequences could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nuclear generation risks the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack or cyber incident and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. nee and fpl maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in nee's and fpl's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. if nee or fpl is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of fpl, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. in the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, nee and fpl could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the price-anderson act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. in accordance with this act, nee maintains the maximum amount of private liability insurance obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides liability insurance coverage for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. under the secondary 29 table of contents financial protection system, nee is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums, plus any applicable taxes, for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident. such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require nee and fpl to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities and/or result in reduced revenues. the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of new nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a nuclear generation facility, depending upon the nrc's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. any of the foregoing events could require nee and fpl to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. any serious nuclear incident occurring at a nee or fpl plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. an incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the nrc to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, or on certain types of nuclear generation units, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. the inability to operate any of nee's or fpl's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses or, in the case of duane arnold, through expected shutdown could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if any of nee's or fpl's nuclear generation facilities are not operated for any reason through the life of their respective operating licenses or, in the case of duane arnold, through expected shutdown, nee or fpl may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. if planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, nee's and fpl's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications as well as to replace equipment. in the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. liquidity, capital requirements and common stock risks disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets, among other factors, may negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of nee and fpl. nee and fpl rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets could increase nee's and fpl's cost of capital and affect their ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives. if nee or fpl is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. although nee's competitive energy and certain other subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific or other financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. the inability of nee's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, neech and its subsidiaries, to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific or other financing for electric generation or other facilities or acquisitions on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by nee and/or neech in the future. the inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific or other financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings, as well as actions by third parties or lenders, could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not 30 table of contents made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. such an occurrence also could result in nee expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. any of these actions could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for nee or its subsidiaries. nee's, neech's and fpl's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of nee and fpl to grow their business, and increase interest costs. the inability of nee, neech and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could materially adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact nee's and fpl's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. in addition, certain agreements and guarantee arrangements would require posting of additional collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade. some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, nee's overall business mix and political, legislative and regulatory actions. there can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of nee, neech and fpl will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. nee's and fpl's liquidity may be impaired if their credit providers are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. the inability of nee's, neech's and fpl's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require nee, neech or fpl, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity. poor market performance and other economic factors could affect nee's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and prospects. nee sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of nee and its subsidiaries. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. nee's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since, as interest rates decrease the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of nee's and fpl's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee and fpl are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. certain of nee's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may materially adversely affect nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee holds certain investments where changes in the fair value affect nee's financial results. in some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. this type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. a sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to nee. nee is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. substantially all of nee's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. nee's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to nee. 31 table of contents nee's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide nee with funds for its payment obligations. the subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can provide nee with funds. in addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, nee's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. the dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. the future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of nee's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if nee is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. nee guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than fpl, through guarantee agreements with neech. these guarantees may require nee to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when nee is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect nee's ability to meet its financial obligations or to pay dividends. nep may not be able to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to consummate future acquisitions and on the value of nee's limited partner interest in nep opco. nee understands that nep expects, from time to time, to finance acquisitions of clean energy projects partially or wholly through the issuance of additional securities. nep needs to be able to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. nep's ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other factors, the overall state of the capital markets and investor appetite for investment in clean energy projects in general and nep's securities in particular. an inability to obtain capital markets financing on commercially reasonable terms could significantly limit nep's ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy. furthermore, there may not be sufficient availability under nep opco's subsidiaries' revolving credit facility or other financing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. an inability to obtain the required or desired financing could significantly limit nep's ability to consummate acquisitions and effectuate its growth strategy. if financing is available, it may be available only on terms that could significantly increase nep's interest expense, impose additional or more restrictive covenants and reduce cash distributions to its unitholders. nep's inability to effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on nep's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders. through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, nee owns a limited partner interest in nep opco. nep's inability to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms and effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on nep's ability to grow its cash distributions to its common unitholders, including nee, and on the value of nee's limited partnership interest in nep opco. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of nee's common stock. the market price and trading volume of nee's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of nee and its subsidiaries. as a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of nee's common stock. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity. 57 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on nee's and/or fpl's operations and financial results, and could cause nee's and/or fpl's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of nee and/or fpl in this combined form 10-k, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and nee and fpl undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. new factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nee is one of the largest electric power and energy infrastructure companies in north america and a leader in the renewable energy industry. nee has two principal businesses, fpl and neer. fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. fpl's strategic focus is centered on investing in generation, transmission and distribution facilities to continue to deliver on its value proposition of low bills, high reliability, outstanding customer service and clean energy solutions for the benefit of its more than five million customers. neer is the world's largest generator of renewable energy from the wind and sun. neer's strategic focus is centered on the development, construction and operation of long-term contracted assets throughout the u.s. and canada, including renewable generation facilities, natural gas pipelines, electric transmission facilities and battery storage projects. in january 2019, nee completed the acquisition of gulf power, a rate-regulated electric utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in northwest florida. see gulf power section below. as described in more detail in the following sections, nee seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors. nee's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both fpl and neer. management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities available to it; however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by fpl and neer is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise and recognizes that each business contributes to nee's financial strength in different ways. fpl and neer share a common platform with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses. nee and its subsidiaries continue to develop and implement enterprise-wide initiatives focused on improving productivity, process effectiveness and quality. nee, which employed approximately 14,800 people at december 31, 2019 , was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of florida. nee's segments for financial reporting purposes are fpl, gulf power and neer, which is comprised of two wholly owned subsidiaries of nee that are combined for segment reporting purposes. neech, another wholly owned subsidiary of nee, owns and provides funding for nee's operating subsidiaries, other than fpl and its subsidiaries and gulf power. nep, an affiliate of nextera energy resources, was formed in 2014. nep acquires, manages and owns contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows. see neer section below for further discussion of nep, including changes to its governance structure, which resulted in the deconsolidation of nep in january 2018. 4 table of contents fpl fpl was incorporated under the laws of florida in 1925 and is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in florida. in 2018, fpl acquired a retail gas business (see note 8 - other). fpl is the largest electric utility in the state of florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the u.s. at december 31, 2019 , fpl had approximately 27,400 mw of net generating capacity, approximately 75,400 circuit miles of transmission and distribution lines and 661 substations. fpl provides service to its electric customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers. at december 31, 2019 , fpl served more than ten million people through more than five million customer accounts. fpl's service territory, which covers most of the east and lower west coasts of florida, and plant locations at december 31, 2019 were as follows (see fpl sources of generation below): 5 table of contents customers and revenue fpl's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within florida. the percentage of fpl's operating revenues and customer accounts by customer class were as follows: for both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that fpl may charge are approved by regulatory bodies, by the fpsc in the case of retail customers and by the ferc in the case of wholesale customers. in general, under u.s. and florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. since the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed, there can be no guarantee that fpl will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates. see fpl regulation below. fpl seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low-cost position, including the implementation of ideas generated from cost savings initiatives. a common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the price of 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer. fpl's 2019 average bill for 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was well below both the average of reporting electric utilities within florida and the july 2019 national average (the latest date for which this data is available) as indicated below: 6 table of contents franchise agreements and competition fpl's service to its electric retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and fpl has the right to offer electric service to residents. fpl currently holds 184 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in florida with varying expiration dates through 2049. these franchise agreements cover approximately 88% of fpl's retail customer base in florida. fpl also provides service to customers in 11 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility. fpl relies upon florida law for access to public rights of way. because any customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, fpl effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. as a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since fpl's cost of service is lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. changing technology, economic conditions and other factors could alter the favorable relative cost position that fpl currently enjoys; however, fpl seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of low customer bills, high reliability and outstanding customer service. in addition to self-generation by residential, commercial and industrial customers, fpl also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources. in each of 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , operating revenues from wholesale and industrial electric customers combined represented approximately five percent of fpl's total operating revenues. for the building of new steam and solar generating capacity of 75 mw or greater, the fpsc requires investor-owned electric utilities, including fpl, to issue a request for proposal (rfp) except when the fpsc determines that an exception from the rfp process is in the public interest. the rfp process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. if a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the fpsc approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. fpl sources of generation at december 31, 2019 , fpl's resources for serving load consisted of approximately 27,554 mw, of which 27,440 mw were from fpl-owned facilities and 114 mw were available through purchased power agreements. fpl owned and operated 31 units that used fossil fuels, primarily natural gas, with generating capacity of 22,170 mw and had a joint ownership interest in 1 out-of-state coal unit, which it does not operate, with net generating capacity of 634 mw. in addition, fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated, 4 nuclear units with net generating capacity totaling 3,479 mw (see nuclear operations below) and owned and operated 17 solar generation facilities with generating capacity totaling 1,157 mw (excluding 75 mw of non-incremental solar capability which is provided in conjunction with a natural gas generation facility). fpl customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in fpl's service territory. occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. fpl is in the process of modernizing two generating units at its lauderdale facility to a high-efficiency, clean-burning natural gas unit (dania beach clean energy center). the dania beach clean energy center is expected to provide approximately 1,200 mw of generating capacity and to be in service in 2022. 7 table of contents fuel sources fpl relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generation facilities, the ability of some of its generation facilities to operate on both natural gas and oil, and on purchased power to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix in order to respond to market and industry developments. *approximately 71% has dual fuel capability *oil is less than 1% significant fuel and transportation contracts. at december 31, 2019 , fpl had the following significant fuel and transportation contracts in place: fpl has firm transportation contracts with seven different transportation suppliers for natural gas pipeline capacity for an aggregate maximum quantity of 2,769,000 mmbtu/day currently, of which 1,969,000 mmbtu/day have expiration dates ranging from 2020 to 2036. the remaining 800,000 mmbtu/day increases to 1,200,000 mmbtu/day starting in mid-2020 through 2042. see note 15 - contracts. fpl has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from march 2020 through 2032. additionally, fpl enters into short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of fpl's anticipated needs for natural gas. the remainder of fpl's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. nuclear operations at december 31, 2019 , fpl owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the four nuclear units in florida discussed below. fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. facility fpl's ownership (mw) beginning of next scheduled refueling outage operating license expiration date st. lucie unit no. 1 981 april 2021 2036 st. lucie unit no. 2 840 (a) february 2020 2043 turkey point unit no. 3 837 march 2020 2052 turkey point unit no. 4 821 october 2020 2053 ______________________ (a) excludes 147 mw operated by fpl but owned by non-affiliates. nrc regulations require fpl to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. fpl's current plans, under the existing operating licenses, provide for st. lucie unit no. 1 to be shut down in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the dismantlement of st. lucie unit no. 2 commencing in 2043. current plans provide for the dismantlement of turkey point units nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2052 and 2053, respectively. 8 table of contents fpl's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel that is generated at these facilities through license expiration. fpl energy marketing and trading fpl's energy marketing &amp; trading division (emt) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. emt procures natural gas and oil for fpl's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. emt also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the physical and financial risks inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. substantially all of the results of emt's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. see management's discussion - energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity and note 4. fpl regulation fpl's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following: the fpsc, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things; the ferc, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of generation, transmission and other facilities, transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce, proposals to build and operate interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things; the nerc, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the ferc, to ensure the reliability of the u.s. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts; the nrc, which has jurisdiction over the operation of nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders; and the epa, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws, in some cases delegating authority to state agencies. the epa also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts. fpl electric rate regulation the fpsc sets rates at a level that is intended to allow fpl the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to fpl's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. to accomplish this, the fpsc uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. base rates . in general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. these basic costs include o&amp;m expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on fpl's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). at the time base rates are established, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the fpsc's determination of fpl's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed return on common equity. the fpsc monitors fpl's actual regulatory roe through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by fpl with the fpsc. the fpsc does not provide assurance that any regulatory roe will be achieved. base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings. proceedings can occur at the initiative of fpl or upon action by the fpsc. existing base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the fpsc. base rates effective january 2017 through at least december 2020 - in december 2016, the fpsc issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between fpl and several intervenors in fpl's base rate proceeding (2016 rate agreement). key elements of the 2016 rate agreement, which is effective from january 2017 through at least december 2020, include, among other things, the following: new retail base rates and charges were established resulting in the following increases in annualized retail base revenues: $400 million beginning january 1, 2017; $211 million beginning january 1, 2018; and $200 million beginning april 1, 2019 for a new approximately 1,720 mw natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit in okeechobee county, florida (okeechobee clean energy center) that achieved commercial operation on march 31, 2019. in addition, fpl is eligible to receive base rate increases associated with the addition of up to 300 mw annually of new solar generation in each of 2017 through 2020 with an installed cost cap of $1,750 per kw. approximately 900 mw of new solar generating capacity has become operational, 600 mw in the first quarter of 2018 and 300 mw in the first quarter of 2019. an additional 300 mw is expected to be operational in the second quarter of 2020. fpl's allowed regulatory roe is 10.55%, with a range of 9.60% to 11.60%. if fpl's earned regulatory roe falls below 9.60%, fpl may seek retail base rate relief. if the earned regulatory roe rises above 11.60%, any party other than fpl may seek a review of fpl's retail base rates. 9 table of contents subject to certain conditions, fpl may amortize, over the term of the 2016 rate agreement, up to $1.0 billion of depreciation reserve surplus plus the reserve amount that remained under fpl's previous rate agreement (approximately $250 million), provided that in any year of the 2016 rate agreement fpl must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.60% earned regulatory roe but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory roe in excess of 11.60%. future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. if storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, fpl may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover amounts above $400 million. see note 1 - storm fund, storm reserve and storm cost recovery regarding several hurricanes that impacted fpl's service territory from 2016 - 2019. cost recovery clauses . cost recovery clauses are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through various clauses. cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class. these cost recovery clause charges are calculated annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods. an adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. fpl recovers costs from customers through the following clauses: fuel - primarily fuel costs, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses in terms of operating revenues (see note 1 - rate regulation); capacity - primarily certain costs associated with the acquisition of several electric generation facilities (see note 1 - rate regulation); energy conservation - costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs; and environmental - certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after april 1993 and costs associated with three of fpl's solar facilities placed in service prior to 2016. in june 2019, florida's governor signed legislation into law which directed the fpsc to propose new rules that would (i) require state investor-owned utilities to submit a 10-year transmission and distribution storm protection plan (spp) to the fpsc for approval at least every three years and (ii) provide for annual clause recovery of storm protection plan costs not already recovered in base rates or through other clauses, including costs for hardening of overhead transmission and distribution lines, undergrounding of certain distribution lines and vegetation management. in october 2019, the fpsc issued its proposed spp and spp cost recovery clause rules. final rules will become effective on february 18, 2020. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. these costs may include, among others, fuel and o&amp;m expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. ferc the federal power act grants the ferc exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce. pursuant to the federal power act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the ferc which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of ferc-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. the federal power act also gives the ferc authority to certify and oversee an electric reliability organization with authority to establish and independently enforce mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system. see nerc below. electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the ferc. the ferc also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates. nerc the nerc has been certified by the ferc as an electric reliability organization. the nerc's mandate is to ensure the reliability and security of the north american bulk-power system through the establishment and enforcement of reliability standards approved by ferc. the nerc's regional entities also enforce reliability standards approved by the ferc. fpl is subject to these reliability standards and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them. fpl environmental regulation fpl is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the nee environmental matters section below. fpl expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. 10 table of contents fpl employees fpl had approximately 8,900 employees at december 31, 2019 , with approximately 32% of these employees represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers (ibew), substantially all of which are under a collective bargaining agreement with fpl that expires october 31, 2020. neer nextera energy resources was formed in 1998 to aggregate nee's competitive energy businesses. during the fourth quarter of 2019, nee began reporting nextera energy resources and neet, a rate-regulated transmission business, on a combined basis for segment reporting purposes, and the combined segment is referred to as neer. neet previously was reported in corporate and other. see note 16. neer is a diversified clean energy business with a strategy that emphasizes the development, construction and operation of long-term contracted assets with a focus on renewable projects. the neer segment currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generation facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the u.s. and canada. neer, with approximately 21,900 mw of total net generating capacity at december 31, 2019 , is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the u.s., including approximately 21,240 mw of net generating capacity across 37 states and 520 mw of net generating capacity in 4 canadian provinces (see note 1 - disposal of businesses/assets). at december 31, 2019 , neer operates facilities with a total generating capacity of 24,700 mw. neer produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. neer is the world's largest generator of renewable energy from the wind and sun based on 2019 mwh produced on a net generation basis. in addition, neer develops and constructs battery storage projects, which when combined with its renewable projects, serve to enhance its ability to meet customer needs for a nearly firm generation source. neer also owns and operates rate-regulated transmission facilities, primarily in texas and california, and transmission lines that connect its electric generation facilities to the electric grid, which are comprised of approximately 190 substations and 1,865 circuit miles of transmission lines at december 31, 2019 . neer also engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, primarily to hedge the production from its generation assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements. these contracts primarily include power and gas commodities and their related products, as well as provide full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offer customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers. in addition, neer participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production through operating and non-operating ownership interests, and in pipeline infrastructure development, construction, management and operations, through either wholly owned subsidiaries or noncontrolling or joint venture interests, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business. neer also hedges the expected output from its gas infrastructure production assets to protect against price movements. nep - nep was formed in 2014 to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable long-term cash flows through a limited partner interest in nep opco. nep's projects include energy projects contributed by nextera energy resources to nep opco in connection with nep's initial public offering in july 2014 as well as additional energy projects acquired thereafter. nextera energy resources' indirect limited partnership interest in nep opco based on the number of outstanding nep opco common units was approximately 60.8% at december 31, 2019 . nep was deconsolidated from nee for financial reporting purposes in january 2018 as a result of changes made to nep's governance structure that enhanced nep unitholder governance rights. as a result, nextera energy resources began reflecting its ownership interest in nep as an equity method investment with its earnings/losses from nep as equity in earnings (losses) of equity method investees and accounting for its asset sales to nep as third-party sales in its consolidated financial statements. see note 1 - nextera energy partners, lp. prior to the deconsolidation, nee owned a controlling general partner interest in nep and consolidated nep. at december 31, 2019 , nep owned, or had an interest in, a portfolio of 36 wind and solar projects with generating capacity totaling approximately 5,331 mw and had membership interests in contracted natural gas pipelines, all located in the u.s. as further discussed in generation and other operations. nextera energy resources operates essentially all of the energy projects in nep's portfolio and its ownership interest in the portfolio's generating capacity was approximately 3,240 mw at december 31, 2019 . generation and other operations neer sells products associated with its own generation facilities (energy, capacity, renewable energy credits (recs) and ancillary services) in competitive markets in regions where those facilities are located. customer transactions may be supplied from neer generation facilities or from purchases in the wholesale markets, or from a combination thereof. see markets and competition below. 11 table of contents at december 31, 2019 , neer managed or participated in the management of essentially all of the following generation projects, natural gas pipelines and transmission facilities that it wholly owned or in which it had an ownership interest. generation assets and other operations 12 table of contents generation assets. neer's portfolio of generation assets primarily consist of generation facilities with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their capacity and/or energy output. information related to contracted generation assets at december 31, 2019 was as follows: represented approximately 19,796 mw of total net generating capacity; weighted-average remaining contract term of the power sales agreements and the remaining life of the ptcs associated with repowered wind facilities of approximately 16 years, based on forecasted contributions to earnings and forecasted amounts of electricity produced by the repowered wind facilities; and contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from march 2020 through 2033 (see note 15 - contracts). neer's merchant generation assets primarily consist of a nuclear generation facility and oil-fired generation facilities that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their capacity and/or energy output and therefore require active marketing and hedging. merchant generation assets at december 31, 2019 represented approximately 2,070 mw of total net generating capacity, including 1,102 mw from nuclear generation and 805 mw from oil-fired peak generation facilities, and are primarily located in the northeast region of the u.s. neer utilizes swaps, options, futures and forwards to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. other operations. gas infrastructure business - at december 31, 2019 , nextera energy resources had ownership interests in natural gas pipelines, the most significant of which are discussed below, and in oil and gas shale formations located primarily in the midwest and south regions of the u.s. miles of pipeline pipeline location/route ownership total net capacity (per day) actual/expected in-service dates operational: texas pipelines (a) 542 south texas 58.8% (b) 2.32 bcf 1950 - 2014 sabal trail (c) 517 southwestern alabama to central florida 42.5% 0.35 bcf - 0.46 bcf june 2017 - mid-2021 florida southeast connection (c) 169 central florida to south florida 100% 0.64 bcf june 2017 central penn line (d) 185 northeastern pennsylvania to southeastern pennsylvania 23.7% (b) 0.30 bcf - 0.43 bcf october 2018 - mid-2022 under construction: mountain valley pipeline (e) 303 northwestern west virginia to southern virginia 31% 0.62 bcf end of 2020 ______________________ (a) a nep portfolio of seven natural gas pipelines, of which a third party owns a 10% interest in a 120-mile pipeline with a daily capacity of approximately 2.3 bcf. approximately 1.82 bcf per day of net capacity is contracted with firm ship-or-pay contracts that have expiration dates ranging from 2020 to 2035. (b) ownership percentage based on nextera energy resources limited partnership interest in nep opco common units. (c) see note 15 - contracts for a discussion of transportation contracts with fpl. (d) nep has an indirect equity method investment in the central penn line (cpl) which represents an approximately 39% aggregate ownership interest in the cpl. (e) completion of construction of the natural gas pipeline is subject to final permitting. also, see note 15 - contracts for a discussion of a transportation contract with a nextera energy resources subsidiary. rate-regulated transmission - at december 31, 2019 , certain entities within the neer segment had ownership interests in rate-regulated transmission facilities, the most significant of which are discussed below, which facilities are located primarily in ercot, caiso and independent electricity system operator (ieso) jurisdictions. miles substations kilovolt location rate regulator ownership actual/expected in-service dates operational: lone star 330 6 345 central texas puct 100% 2013 trans bay cable 53 2 200 dc (a) northern california ferc 100% 2010 under construction: nextbridge infrastructure 280 - 230 ontario, canada oeb 50% fourth quarter of 2021 ______________________ (a) direct current 13 table of contents customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading - neer provides commodities-related products to customers, engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities and includes the operations of a retail electricity provider. through nextera energy resources subsidiary pmi, neer: manages risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and optimizes the value of neer's power generation and gas infrastructure production assets through the use of swaps, options, futures and forwards; sells output from neer's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures fossil fuel for use by neer's generation fleet; provides full energy and capacity requirements to customers; and markets and trades energy-related commodity products and provides a wide range of electricity and fuel commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to customers. neer generation assets fuel/technology mix nextera energy resources utilized the following mix of fuel sources for generation facilities in which it has an ownership interest: *oil is less than 1% wind facilities located in 19 states in the u.s. and 4 provinces in canada; operated a total generating capacity of 15,955 mw at december 31, 2019 ; ownership interests in a total net generating capacity of 14,111 mw at december 31, 2019 ; all mw are from contracted wind assets located primarily throughout texas and the west and midwest regions of the u.s. and canada; added approximately 1,125 mw of new generating capacity and repowered wind generating capacity totaling 1,091 mw in the u.s. in 2019 (see note 1 - disposal of businesses/assets for asset sales to nep). solar facilities located in 26 states in the u.s.; operated pv and solar thermal facilities with a total generating capacity of 2,684 mw at december 31, 2019 ; ownership interests in pv and solar thermal facilities with a total net generating capacity of 2,662 mw at december 31, 2019 ; essentially all mw are from contracted solar facilities located primarily throughout the west and south regions of the u.s.; added approximately 512 mw of generating capacity in the u.s. in 2019 (see note 1 - disposal of businesses/assets for asset sales to nep). 14 table of contents fossil facilities operated natural gas generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 2,110 mw at december 31, 2019 ; ownership interests in natural gas generation facilities with a total net generating capacity of 1,565 mw at december 31, 2019 ; approximately 1,407 mw are contracted and 158 mw are merchant; located in 2 states in the northeast region of the u.s. and in florida; and operated oil-fired peak generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 878 mw with an ownership or undivided interests in total net generating capacity of 805 mw at december 31, 2019 primarily located in maine. nuclear facilities at december 31, 2019 , nextera energy resources owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the four nuclear units discussed below. neer's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. scheduled nuclear refueling outages require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. facility location ownership (mw) portfolio category next scheduled refueling outage operating license expiration date seabrook new hampshire 1,102 (a) merchant april 2020 2050 duane arnold iowa 431 (b) contracted (c) none (c) 2034 (c) point beach unit no. 1 wisconsin 595 contracted (d) october 2020 2030 point beach unit no. 2 wisconsin 595 contracted (d) march 2020 2033 ______________________ (a) excludes 147 mw operated by neer but owned by non-affiliates. (b) excludes 184 mw operated by neer but owned by non-affiliates. (c) neer sells all of its share of the output of duane arnold under an amended long-term contract expiring in december 2020. operations of duane arnold are expected to cease in late 2020. see note 5 - nonrecurring fair value measurements. (d) neer sells all of the output of point beach units nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through their current operating license expiration dates. neer is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly-owned units. nrc regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. in the case of duane arnold, a plan for decontamination and decommissioning is required to be submitted to the nrc no later than 2 years following shutdown of the facility. neer's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel that is generated at these facilities through license expiration or, in the case of duane arnold, through expected shutdown of the facility. policy incentives for renewable energy projects u.s. federal, state and local governments have established various incentives to support the development of renewable energy projects. these incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, ptcs, itcs, cash grants, tax abatements and rps programs. pursuant to the u.s. federal modified accelerated cost recovery system, wind and solar projects are fully depreciated for tax purposes over a five-year period even though the useful life of such projects is generally much longer than five years. owners of utility-scale wind facilities are eligible to claim an income tax credit (the ptc, or an itc in lieu of the ptc) upon initially achieving commercial operation. the ptc is determined based on the amount of electricity produced by the wind facility during the first ten years of commercial operation. this incentive was created under the energy policy act of 1992 and has been extended several times. alternatively, an itc equal to 30% of the cost of a wind facility may be claimed in lieu of the ptc. owners of solar facilities are eligible to claim a 30% itc for new solar facilities. previously, owners of solar facilities could have elected to receive an equivalent cash payment from the u.s. department of treasury for the value of the 30% itc (convertible itc) for qualifying solar facilities where construction began before the end of 2011 and the facilities were placed in service before 2017. in order to qualify for the ptc (or an itc in lieu of the ptc) for wind or itc for solar, construction of a facility must begin before a specified date and the taxpayer must maintain a continuous program of construction or continuous efforts to advance the project to completion. the internal revenue service (irs) issued guidance stating that the safe harbor for continuous efforts and continuous construction requirements will generally be satisfied if the facility is placed in service no more than four years after the year in which construction of the facility began. the irs also confirmed that retrofitted wind facilities may re-qualify for ptcs or itcs pursuant to the 5% safe harbor for the begin construction requirement, as long as the cost basis of the new investment is at least 80% of the facility's total fair value. tax credits for qualifying wind and solar projects are subject to the following schedule. 15 table of contents year construction of project begins (a) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 ptc (b) 100 % 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 60 % - - wind itc (c) 30 % 30 % 24 % 18 % 12 % 18 % - - solar itc (d) 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % 26 % 22 % 10 % _________________________ (a) project must be placed in service no more than four years after the year in which construction of the project began to qualify for the ptc or itc. (b) percentage of the full ptc available for wind projects that begin construction during the applicable year. (c) percentage of eligible project costs that can be claimed as itc by wind projects that begin construction during the applicable year. (d) percentage of eligible project costs that can be claimed as itc by solar projects that begin construction during the applicable year. itc is limited to 10% for solar projects not placed in service before january 1, 2024. other countries, including canada, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. the feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology. markets and competition electricity markets in the u.s. and canada are regional and diverse in character. all are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. the nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region. generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, neer may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. neer's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities may also be constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing. the degree and nature of competition is different in wholesale markets than in retail markets. during 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , approximately 85% of neer's revenue was derived from wholesale electricity markets. wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. neer primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of neer's generation assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage reliable customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages. wholesale power generation is a regional business that is highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. as such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies neer competes with depending on the market. in wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services. in general, u.s. and canadian electricity markets encompass three classes of services: energy, capacity and ancillary services. energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services that relate to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves. the exact nature of these classes of services is defined in part by regional tariffs. not all regions have a capacity services class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region. rtos and isos exist throughout much of north america to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets. neer operates in all rto and iso jurisdictions. at december 31, 2019 , neer also had generation facilities with ownership interests in a total net generating capacity of approximately 4,642 mw that fall within reliability regions that are not under the jurisdiction of an established rto or iso, including 2,365 mw within the western electricity coordinating council and 1,252 mw within the florida reliability coordinating council. although each rto and iso may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. neer has operations that fall within the following rtos and isos: 16 table of contents neer competes in different regions to differing degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generation facilities. at december 31, 2019 , approximately 90% of neer's net generating capacity was committed under long-term contracts. where long-term contracts are not in effect, neer sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. in such cases, neer will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically of less than three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, serve to protect a portion of the revenue that neer expects to derive from the associated generation facility. contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under gaap are referred to as non-qualifying hedges for adjusted earnings purposes. see management's discussion - overview - adjusted earnings. certain facilities within the neer wind and solar generation portfolio produce recs and other environmental attributes which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts, or may be sold separately for the wind and solar generation not sold under long-term contracts. the purchasing party is solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes. while the majority of neer's revenue is derived from the output of its generation facilities, neer is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and fuel products and services to a variety of customers. in the full requirements service, typically, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day, at a fixed price, for a predetermined period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements. expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for neer. opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. neer seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities. neer regulation the energy markets in which neer operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, as the case may be, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. at december 31, 2019 , essentially all of neer's operating independent power projects located in the u.s. have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the public utility holding company act of 2005. exempt wholesale generators own 17 table of contents or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. they are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. while projects with exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. additionally, most of the neer facilities located in the u.s. are subject to ferc regulations and market rules and the nerc's mandatory reliability standards, all of its facilities are subject to environmental laws and the epa's environmental regulations, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc. see fpl - fpl regulation for additional discussion of ferc, nerc, nrc and epa regulations. rates of neer's rate-regulated transmission businesses are set by regulatory bodies as noted in generation and other operations - generation assets and other operations - other operations - rate-regulated transmission. with the exception of facilities located in ercot, the ferc has jurisdiction over various aspects of neer's business in the u.s., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas projects and major electricity policy initiatives. the puct has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over neer facilities located in ercot. certain entities within the neer segment and their affiliates are also subject to federal and provincial or regional regulations in canada related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. in canada, activities related to owning and operating wind and solar projects and participating in wholesale and retail energy markets are regulated at the provincial level. in ontario, for example, electricity generation facilities must be licensed by the oeb and may also be required to complete registrations and maintain market participant status with the ieso, in which case they must agree to be bound by and comply with the provisions of the market rules for the ontario electricity market as well as the mandatory reliability standards of the nerc. in addition, neer is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the nee environmental matters section below. in order to better anticipate potential regulatory changes, neer continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. neer employees neer had approximately 5,000 employees at december 31, 2019 . neer has collective bargaining agreements with the ibew, the utility workers union of america, and the security police and fire professionals of america, which collectively represent approximately 15% of neer's employees. the collective bargaining agreements have two- to five-year terms and expire between march 2021 and september 2022. gulf power on january 1, 2019, nee completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding common shares of gulf power under a stock purchase agreement with the southern company dated may 20, 2018, as amended, for approximately $4.44 billion in cash consideration and the assumption of approximately $1.3 billion of gulf power debt. gulf power was incorporated under the laws of maine in 1925 and became a florida corporation after being domesticated under the laws of florida in 2005. gulf power, a rate-regulated electric utility under the jurisdiction of the fpsc, is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in northwest florida. gulf power is subject to regulations similar to fpl (see fpl - fpl regulation above). gulf power operates under a base rate settlement agreement, which took effect july 1, 2017, that provides for an allowed regulatory roe of 10.25%, with a range of 9.25% to 11.25%. as of december 31, 2019 , gulf power served approximately 470,000 customers in eight counties throughout northwest florida and had approximately 2,300 mw of fossil-fueled electric net generating capacity and 9,500 miles of transmission and distribution lines located primarily in florida. see note 8 - gulf power company for further discussion. 18 table of contents nee environmental matters nee and its subsidiaries, including fpl, are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. the u.s. government and certain states and regions, as well as the government of canada and its provinces, have taken and continue to take certain actions, such as proposing and finalizing regulations or setting targets or goals, regarding the regulation and reduction of ghg emissions and the increase of renewable energy generation. numerous environmental regulations also affecting fpl, neer, gulf power, and certain other subsidiaries relate to threatened and endangered species and/or their habitats, as well as other avian and bat species. the environmental laws in the u.s., including, among others, the endangered species act, the migratory bird treaty act, and the bald and golden eagle protection act, provide for the protection of numerous species, including endangered species of birds and bats and/or their habitats, migratory birds and eagles. the environmental laws in canada, including, among others, the species at risk act, provide for the recovery of wildlife species that are endangered or threatened and the management of species of special concern. complying with these environmental laws and regulations could result in, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. failure to comply could result in fines, penalties, criminal sanctions or injunctions. the impact of complying with current environmental laws and regulations has not had, and, along with compliance with proposed regulations as currently written, is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the financial statements of nee and fpl. nee's rate-regulated subsidiaries expect to seek recovery for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations, which recovery for fpl and gulf power would be through their respective environmental clause. website access to sec filings nee and fpl make their sec filings, including the annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on nee's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information and materials available on nee's website (or any of its subsidiaries' or affiliates' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined form 10-k. 19 table of contents information about our executive officers (a) name age position effective date miguel arechabala 58 executive vice president, power generation division of nee executive vice president, power generation division of fpl january 1, 2014 deborah h. caplan 57 executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of nee executive vice president, human resources and corporate services of fpl april 15, 2013 paul i. cutler 60 treasurer of nee treasurer of fpl assistant secretary of nee february 19, 2003 february 18, 2003 december 10, 1997 joseph t. kelliher 59 executive vice president, federal regulatory affairs of nee may 18, 2009 john w. ketchum 49 president and chief executive officer of nextera energy resources march 1, 2019 rebecca j. kujawa 44 executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of nee executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of fpl march 1, 2019 james m. may 43 vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of nee march 1, 2019 donald a. moul 54 executive vice president, nuclear division and chief nuclear officer of nee vice president and chief nuclear officer of fpl january 1, 2020 may 17, 2019 ronald r. reagan 51 executive vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain of nee vice president, engineering and construction of fpl january 1, 2020 march 1, 2019 james l. robo 57 chairman, president and chief executive officer of nee chairman of fpl december 13, 2013 may 2, 2012 charles e. sieving 47 executive vice president &amp; general counsel of nee executive vice president of fpl december 1, 2008 january 1, 2009 eric e. silagy 54 president and chief executive officer of fpl may 30, 2014 ______________________ (a) information is as of february 14, 2020 . executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. except as noted below, each officer has held his/her present position for five years or more and his/her employment history is continuous. mr. ketchum served as executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer of nee and fpl from march 2016 to february 2019 and nee's senior vice president, finance from february 2015 to march 2016. ms. kujawa served as vice president, business management of nextera energy resources from march 2012 to february 2019. mr. may served as controller of nextera energy resources from april 2015 to february 2019 and was director of accounting of nextera energy resources from july 2013 to april 2015. mr. moul served as vice president and chief nuclear officer of nee from may 2019 to december 2019. he previously held various roles at several subsidiaries of firstenergy corp., which are energy suppliers involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity. mr. moul was executive on special assignment of firstenergy solutions corp. from march 2019 to may 2019, president and chief nuclear officer of firstenergy generation companies from march 2018 to march 2019, president of firstenergy generation llc from april 2017 to march 2018, senior vice president, fossil operations and environmental of firstenergy solutions from august 2015 to april 2017, and vice president, commodity operations of firstenergy solutions from october 2012 to august 2015. mr. reagan served as vice president, engineering and construction of nee from november 2018 to december 2019 and vice president, integrated supply chain of nee from october 2012 to november 2018. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks relating to nee's and fpl's business the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of nee and fpl. these risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or that are currently believed to not be material to the business, may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl and may cause actual results of nee and fpl to differ substantially from those that nee or fpl currently expects or seeks. in that event, the market price for the securities of nee or fpl could decline. accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that nee and fpl file with the sec. regulatory, legislative and legal risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. the operations of nee and fpl are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. this extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, nee's and fpl's industry, businesses, rates and cost structures, operation and licensing of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, natural gas, oil and other fuel transportation, processing and storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. in their business planning and in the management of their operations, nee and fpl must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. fpl operates as an electric utility and is subject to the jurisdiction of the fpsc over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers and fuel for its plant operations, issuances of securities, and aspects of the siting, construction and operation of its generation plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. the fpsc has the authority to disallow recovery by fpl of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that fpl is permitted to earn on invested capital. the regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in florida and elsewhere, limits or could otherwise adversely impact fpl's earnings. the regulatory process also does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels, or that fpl will be permitted to earn an acceptable return on capital investments it wishes to make. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. certain other subsidiaries of nee are utilities subject to the jurisdiction of their regulators and are subject to similar risks. regulatory decisions that are important to nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. the local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on fpsc decisions with negative consequences for fpl. these decisions may require, for example, fpl to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. certain other subsidiaries of nee are subject to similar risks. fpl's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the fpsc. the fpsc engages in an annual prudence review of fpl's use of derivative instruments in its risk management fuel procurement program and should it find any such use to be imprudent, the fpsc could deny cost recovery for such use by fpl. such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support utility scale renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax laws, policies and incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of 21 table of contents renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer depends heavily on government policies that support utility scale renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which neer operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. the federal government, a majority of state governments in the u.s. and portions of canada provide incentives, such as tax incentives, rps or feed-in tariffs, that support or are designed to support the sale of energy from utility scale renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. as a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their laws and policies that support renewable energy and consider actions that would make the laws and policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support renewable energy or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, neer abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of neer's investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations, interpretations or ballot or regulatory initiatives. nee's and fpl's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, new or revised laws, including international trade laws, regulations, interpretations or ballot or regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and regulation of environmental matters, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. changes in the nature of the regulation of nee's and fpl's business could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on nee and fpl, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. fpl has limited competition in the florida market for retail electricity customers. any changes in florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the florida retail electricity market, such as government incentives that facilitate the installation of solar generation facilities on residential or other rooftops at below cost or that are otherwise subsidized by non-participants, or would permit third-party sales of electricity, could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be no assurance that fpl will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer is subject to ferc rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. nee cannot predict the impact of changing ferc rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond nee's control. there can be no assurance that neer will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's otc financial derivatives are subject to rules implementing certain provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and similar international regulations. nee and fpl cannot predict the impact any proposed or not fully implemented final rules will have on their ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks or on otc derivatives markets as a whole, but such rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities. nee and fpl are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require nee and fpl to limit or eliminate certain operations. nee and fpl are subject to domestic environmental laws, regulations and other standards, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, soil quality, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, carbon dioxide, waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and rps, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict or enjoin the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. certain subsidiaries of nee are also subject to foreign environmental laws, regulations and other standards and, as such, are subject to similar risks. 22 table of contents there are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new requirements and stricter or more expansive application of existing environmental laws and regulations. violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose nee and fpl to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, governmental entities and third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. proceedings could include, for example, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements. nee's and fpl's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, carbon dioxide and methane, from electric generation units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. the potential effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on nee's and fpl's electric generation units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. while nee's and fpl's electric generation units emit greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the u.s. electric generation sector, the results of operations of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state laws or regulations impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; make some of nee's and fpl's electric generation units uneconomical to operate in the long term; require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. there can be no assurance that nee or fpl would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. extensive federal regulation of the operations and businesses of nee and fpl exposes nee and fpl to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. nee's and fpl's operations and businesses are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on their operations and businesses. additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. as an example, under the energy policy act of 2005, nee and fpl, as owners and operators of bulk-power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject nee and fpl to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if fpl or nee is found not to be in compliance with these standards, they may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including but not limited to changes in corporate income tax rates, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including changes in corporate income tax rates, the financial condition and results of operations of nee and fpl, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. these factors, including the ultimate resolution of income tax matters, may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 23 table of contents nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings in which nee or fpl is involved or other future legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. development and operational risks nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if nee and fpl do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. nee's and fpl's ability to proceed with projects under development and to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, native american and aboriginal groups, lessors, joint venture partners and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. if any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or otherwise be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may be available, and nee and fpl could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write off all or a portion of their investment in the project. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. nee and fpl own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generation and transmission facilities and natural gas transmission facilities. a key component of nee's and fpl's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. as part of these operations, nee and fpl must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. should nee or fpl be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms or resolving third-party challenges to such licenses or permits, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on nee or fpl, nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities, retail gas distribution system in florida and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities, retail gas distribution system in florida and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures or legal claims, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage or loss of life, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements or other agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at higher prices. uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining nee's and fpl's facilities include, but are not limited to: risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, icing events, floods, earthquakes and droughts; performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires, leaks or other major events, of equipment, transmission or distribution systems or pipelines; availability of replacement equipment; 24 table of contents risks of property damage, human injury or loss of life from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires, leaks or other events, especially where facilities are located near populated areas; potential environmental impacts of gas infrastructure operations; availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; inability to identify, manage properly or mitigate equipment defects in nee's and fpl's facilities; use of new or unproven technology; risks associated with dependence on a specific type of fuel or fuel source, such as commodity price risk, availability of adequate fuel supply and transportation, and lack of available alternative fuel sources; increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply, shifting demand and regulatory changes; and insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities, as well as the need for energy-related commodities such as natural gas. customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of nee and fpl, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. a lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity or natural gas and other fuels may cause nee and fpl to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. in addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, icing events and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of fuel and water, and require nee and fpl to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. furthermore, nee's and fpl's physical plants could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to fpl, a change in sea level. fpl operates in the east and lower west coasts of florida and gulf power operates in northwest florida, areas that historically have been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. a disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent nee and fpl from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. at fpl and other businesses of nee where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generation facilities, including, but not limited to, neer's wind and solar facilities. for example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generation facilities. because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, neer's results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and nee's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. to the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyberattacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt nee's and fpl's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyberattacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. there have been cyberattacks within the energy industry on energy infrastructure such as substations, gas pipelines and related assets in the past and there may be such attacks in the future. nee's and fpl's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or otherwise be materially adversely affected by, such activities. terrorist acts, cyberattacks or other similar events affecting nee's and fpl's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which nee and fpl rely, could harm nee's and fpl's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or 25 table of contents transmit power, natural gas or other energy-related commodities, by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generation, distribution or transmission facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. these events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), significant fines and penalties, and reputational damage, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair nee's and fpl's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). in addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. such events or actions may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. nee's and fpl's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to nee and fpl. the ability of nee and fpl to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. if insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, nee or fpl may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. nee and fpl generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. for example, fpl is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but could instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the fpsc, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. a loss for which nee or fpl is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee invests in gas and oil producing and transmission assets through neer's gas infrastructure business. the gas infrastructure business is exposed to fluctuating market prices of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil and other energy commodities. a prolonged period of low gas and oil prices could impact neer's gas infrastructure business and cause neer to delay or cancel certain gas infrastructure projects and could result in certain projects becoming impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. natural gas and oil prices are affected by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, political instability, conflicts, new discoveries, technological advances, economic conditions and actions by major oil-producing countries. there can be significant volatility in market prices for gas and oil, and price fluctuations could have a material effect on the financial performance of gas and oil producing and transmission assets. for example, in a low gas and oil price environment, neer would generate less revenue from its gas infrastructure investments in gas and oil producing properties, and as a result certain investments might become less profitable or incur losses. prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices could also result in the delay or cancellation of oil and gas production and transmission projects, could cause projects to experience lower returns, and could result in certain projects becoming impaired, which could materially adversely affect nee's results of operations. if supply costs necessary to provide neer's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. neer provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. the supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. neer may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, neer's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the commodity risks within its portfolios could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. there can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. nee's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures, based on factors that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, nee's control, may materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 26 table of contents reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of nee to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect nee's results of operations. nee is an active participant in energy markets. the liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in nee's ability to manage risks in these operations. market liquidity is driven in part by the number of active market participants. liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. nee and fpl have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. nee and fpl are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks, including, without limitation, employee misconduct. if such procedures and tools are not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, nee's and fpl's risk management tools associated with their hedging and trading procedures may not protect against significant losses. nee's and fpl's risk management tools and metrics associated with their hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, nee and fpl are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against material adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, the ability for subsidiaries of nee, including fpl, to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. subsidiaries of nee, including fpl, depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond the control of subsidiaries of nee, including fpl, (such as severe weather or a generation or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt their ability to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. nee and fpl are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may adversely affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with nee and fpl. if any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, nee and fpl may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in material financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. if a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, nee and fpl may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if nee or fpl is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. nee and fpl use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the otc markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for nee to engage in trading and marketing activities. any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. similarly, any requirement for fpl or nee to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. these risks may be increased during periods of adverse market or economic conditions affecting the industry in which nee and fpl participate. 27 table of contents nee and fpl are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite nee's and fpl's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. if nee's or fpl's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised and nee and fpl could be unable to fulfill critical business functions. nee's and fpl's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. due to the size, scope, complexity and geographical reach of nee's and fpl's business, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process information is critical and challenging. nee's and fpl's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, their control, such as operator error, severe weather, terrorist activities or cyber incidents. any such failure or disabling event could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues and the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. nee and fpl also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. nee's and fpl's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in a material adverse impact to their reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee's and fpl's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. nee's and fpl's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. if a significant breach occurred, the reputation of nee and fpl could be materially adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. nee and fpl would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or nee and fpl could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of nee and fpl. nee and fpl could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in otc markets. nee and fpl execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the otc markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. transactions executed in otc markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. as a result, nee and fpl may not be able to execute desired otc transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment and use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee and fpl may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity. from time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting nee and fpl. adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from nee's and fpl's business. 28 table of contents addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of nee and fpl, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with regulators. it may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. the direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected if they are unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in florida. subsidiaries of nee, including fpl, may negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of the subsidiary's revenues. if they are unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and they may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these consequences could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the energy industry. nee is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the energy industry in general. in addition, nee may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. nuclear generation risks the operation and maintenance of nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. nee's and fpl's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack or cyber incident and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. nee and fpl maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in nee's and fpl's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. if nee or fpl is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of fpl, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. in the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, nee and fpl could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the price-anderson act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. in accordance with this act, nee maintains the maximum amount of private liability insurance obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides liability insurance coverage for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. under the secondary financial protection system, nee is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums, plus any applicable taxes, for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the u.s. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident. such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require nee and fpl to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities and/or result in reduced revenues. 29 table of contents the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of new nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a nuclear generation facility, depending upon the nrc's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. any of the foregoing events could require nee and fpl to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. any serious nuclear incident occurring at a nee or fpl plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. an incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the nrc to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, or on certain types of nuclear generation units, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. the inability to operate any of nee's or fpl's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses, or in the case of duane arnold through expected shutdown, could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. if any of nee's or fpl's nuclear generation facilities are not operated for any reason through the life of their respective operating licenses, or in the case of duane arnold through expected shutdown, nee or fpl may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. if planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, nee's and fpl's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. nee's and fpl's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications as well as to replace equipment. in the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect nee's or fpl's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. liquidity, capital requirements and common stock risks disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets, among other factors, may negatively affect nee's and fpl's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of nee and fpl. nee and fpl rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets could increase nee's and fpl's cost of capital and affect their ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives. if nee or fpl is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. although nee's competitive energy and certain other subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific or other financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. the inability of nee's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, neech and its subsidiaries, to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific or other financing for electric generation or other facilities or acquisitions on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by nee and/or neech in the future. the inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific or other financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings, as well as actions by third parties or lenders, could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. such an occurrence also could result in nee expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. any of these actions could materially adversely affect nee's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for nee or its subsidiaries. 30 table of contents nee's, neech's and fpl's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of nee and fpl to grow their business, and increase interest costs. the inability of nee, neech and fpl to maintain their current credit ratings could materially adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact nee's and fpl's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. in addition, certain agreements and guarantee arrangements would require posting of additional collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade. some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, nee's overall business mix and political, legislative and regulatory actions. there can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of nee, neech and fpl will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. nee's and fpl's liquidity may be impaired if their credit providers are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. the inability of nee's, neech's and fpl's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require nee, neech or fpl, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity. poor market performance and other economic factors could affect nee's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and prospects. nee sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of nee and its subsidiaries. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. nee's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since as interest rates decrease, the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of nee's and fpl's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect nee's and fpl's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee and fpl are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. a decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on nee's and fpl's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. certain of nee's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may materially adversely affect nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee holds certain investments where changes in the fair value affect nee's financial results. in some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. this type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. a sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on nee's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to nee. nee is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. substantially all of nee's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. nee's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to nee. nee's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide nee with funds for its payment obligations. the subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can provide nee with funds. in addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, nee's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. the dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. the future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of nee's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. 31 table of contents nee may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if nee is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. nee guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than fpl, through guarantee agreements with neech. these guarantees may require nee to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when nee is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect nee's ability to meet its financial obligations or to pay dividends. nep may not be able to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to consummate future acquisitions and on the value of nee's limited partner interest in nep opco. through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, nee owns a limited partner interest in nep opco. nep's inability to access capital on commercially reasonable terms and effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on nep's ability to grow its cash distributions to its common unitholders, including nee, and on the value of nee's limited partnership interest in nep opco. in addition, nep's issuance of additional common units, securities convertible into nep common units or other securities in connection with acquisitions could cause significant common unitholder dilution and reduce cash distributions to its common unitholders, including nee, if the acquisitions are not sufficiently accretive. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of nee's common stock. the market price and trading volume of nee's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of nee and its subsidiaries. as a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of nee's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion energy marketing and trading and market risk sensitivity. 55 table of contents