risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 3 part i item 1. business the company vornado realty trust ( vornado ) is a fully integrated real estate investment trust ( reit ) and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, vornado realty l.p., a delaware limited partnership (the operating partnership ). vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 92.5% of the common limited partnership interest in, the operating partnership at december 31, 2009. all references to we, us, our, the company and vornado refer to vornado realty trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the operating partnership. on may 14, 2009, our board of trustees executed its long-planned management succession strategy and elected michael d. fascitelli, as our chief executive officer, succeeding steven roth, who continues to serve as chairman of the board. as of december 31, 2009, we own directly or indirectly: office properties : (i) all or portions of 28 properties aggregating 16.2 million square feet in the new york city metropolitan area (primarily manhattan); (ii) all or portions of 84 properties aggregating 18.6 million square feet in the washington, dc / northern virginia areas; (iii) a 70% controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building complex aggregating 1.8 million square feet in san francisco financial district; retail properties : (iv) 162 properties aggregating 22.6 million square feet, including 3.9 million square feet owned by tenants on land leased from us, primarily in manhattan, the northeast states, california and puerto rico; merchandise mart properties : (v) 8 properties aggregating 8.9 million square feet of showroom and office space, including the 3.5 million square foot merchandise mart in chicago; toys r us, inc. ( toys ): (vi) a 32.7% interest in toys which owns and/or operates 1,567 stores worldwide, including 851 stores in the united states and 716 stores internationally; other real estate investments : (vii) 32.4% of the common stock of alexander s, inc. (nyse: alx), which has seven properties in the greater new york metropolitan area; (viii) the hotel pennsylvania in new york city; (ix) mezzanine loans on real estate; and (x) other real estate and investments, including marketable securities. 4 objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and executing our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit; investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city and washington, dc, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation; acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents; investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the new york city metropolitan area; investing in fully-integrated operating companies that have a significant real estate component; and developing and redeveloping existing properties to increase returns and maximize value. we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities in the future. we may also determine to raise capital for future real estate acquisitions through an institutional investment fund. we would serve as the general partner of the fund and would also expect to be a limited partner of the fund and have the potential to earn certain incentives based on the fund performance. the fund may serve as our exclusive investment vehicle for a limited period of time for all investments that fit within the fund investment parameters. if we determine to raise capital through a fund, the partnership interests offered would not be registered under the securities act of 1933 and could not be offered or sold in the united states absent registration under that act or an applicable exemption from those registration requirements. business environment the economic recession and illiquidity and volatility in the financial and capital markets have negatively affected substantially all businesses, including ours. demand for office and retail space has declined nationwide due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. real estate transactions and development opportunities have significantly curtailed and capitalization rates have risen. these trends have negatively impacted our 2008 and 2009 financial results, which include losses associated with abandoned development projects, valuation allowances on investments in mezzanine loans and impairments on other real estate investments. the details of these non-cash charges are described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. it is not possible for us to quantify the impact of the above trends, which may continue in 2010 and beyond, on our future financial results. acquisitions and dispositions we did not make any significant investments in real estate during 2009. on september 1, 2009, we sold 1999 k street, a newly developed 250,000 square foot office building, in washington central business district, for $207,800,000 in cash, which resulted in a net gain of $41,211,000. we also sold 15 retail properties during 2009 in separate transactions for an aggregate of $55,000,000 in cash, which resulted in net gains aggregating $4,073,000. 5 financing activities in april 2009, we sold 17,250,000 common shares, including underwriters over-allotment, in an underwritten public offering pursuant to an effective registration statement at an initial public offering price of $43.00 per share. we received net proceeds of $710,226,000, after underwriters discount and offering expenses and contributed the net proceeds to the operating partnership in exchange for 17,250,000 class a units of the operating partnership. on september 30, 2009, we completed a public offering of $460,000,000 principal amount of 7.875% callable senior unsecured 30-year notes (nyse: vnod) due october 1, 2039. the notes were sold to the public at par and may be redeemed at our option, in whole or in part, beginning in october 2014 at a price equal to the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. we received net proceeds of approximately $446,000,000 from the offering which were used to repay debt and for general corporate purposes. during 2009, we purchased $1,912,724,000 (aggregate face amount) of our convertible senior debentures and $352,740,000 (aggregate face amount) of our senior unsecured notes for $1,877,510,000 and $343,694,000 in cash, respectively. this debt was acquired through tender offers and in the open market and has been retired. we also repaid $650,285,000 of existing property level debt and completed $277,000,000 of property level financings. development and redevelopment projects we are currently engaged in certain development/redevelopment projects for which we have budgeted approximately $200,000,000. of this amount, $78,118,000 was expended prior to 2009 and $50,513,000 was expended during 2009. substantially all of the estimated costs to complete these projects, aggregating approximately $71,000,000, are anticipated to be expended during 2010, of which approximately $18,000,000 will be funded by existing construction loans. we are also evaluating other development opportunities for which final plans, budgeted costs and financing have yet to be determined. there can be no assurance that any of our development projects will commence, or if commenced, be completed on schedule or within budget. segment data we operate in the following business segments: new york office properties, washington, dc office properties, retail properties, merchandise mart properties and toys. financial information related to these business segments for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are set forth in note 22 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. the merchandise mart properties segment has trade show operations in canada and switzerland. the toys segment has 716 locations internationally. in addition, we have five partially owned nonconsolidated investments in real estate partnerships located in india, which are included in the other segment. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the business of toys is highly seasonal. historically, toys fourth quarter net income, which we record on a one-quarter lag basis in our first quarter, accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. the new york and washington, dc office properties and merchandise mart properties segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. the merchandise mart properties segment has also experienced higher earnings in the second and fourth quarters of the year due to major trade shows occurring in those quarters. the retail properties segment revenue in the fourth quarter is typically higher due to the recognition of percentage rental income. 6 tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. certain activities we are not required to base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold as circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. while we may seek the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by our board of trustees without the vote of shareholders. employees as of december 31, 2009, we have approximately 4,597 employees, of which 308 are corporate staff. the new york office properties segment has 128 employees and an additional 2,512 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york office and washington, dc office properties. the washington, dc office properties, retail properties and merchandise mart properties segments have 396, 176 and 582 employees, respectively, and the hotel pennsylvania has 495 employees. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities, including toys or alexander s, in which we own 32.7% and 32.4%, respectively. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k, and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website ( www.vno.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter , code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial information about us, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. 7 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. real estate investments value and income fluctuate due to various factors. the value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also limit our revenues and available cash. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass some or all of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to secure adequate insurance; changes in taxation; changes in zoning laws; government regulation; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states; natural disasters; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; and general competitive factors. the rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decline when the related rents decline. capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy, which have recently negatively affected substantially all businesses, including ours. demand for office and retail space has declined nationwide due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. real estate transactions and development opportunities have significantly curtailed and capitalization rates have risen. as a result, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, and this may adversely affe ct our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. if these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability and the ability of our tenants, to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs which may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities. 8 real estate is a competitive business. our business segments new york office properties, washington, dc office properties, retail properties, merchandise mart properties, toys and other operate in highly competitive environments. we have a large concentration of properties in the new york city metropolitan area and in the washington, dc / northern virginia areas. we compete with a large number of property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. principal factors of competition are rents charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national, regional and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and re novation costs, taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population trends. we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a substantial majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. during periods of economic adversity such as we are currently experiencing, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenues and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. in the case of our shopping centers, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in a lower level of net income and funds available for the payment of indebtedness or for distribution to shareholders. the current economic environment and market conditions may result in tenant bankruptcies and write-offs, which could, in the aggregate, be material to our results of operations in a particular period. we may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to ell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims ar ising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. the environmental assessments did not, as of this date, reveal any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. 9 inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. although neither inflation nor deflation has materially impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on our mortgages and interest rates and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable. conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income. in addition, we own 9 residential properties which are leased to tenants with one-year lease terms. because these are short-term leases, declines in market rents will impact our residential properties faster than if the leases were for longer terms. some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, including coverage for terrorist acts, with sub-limits for certain perils such as floods. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $150,000,000 per occurrence, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property, and a $150,000,000 annual aggregate. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage and as a direct insurer for coverage for acts of terrorism, including nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) acts, as defined by tripra. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. our coverage for nbcr losses is up to $2 billion per occurrence, for which ppic is responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 and 15% of the balance of a covered loss and the federal government is responsible for the remaining 85% of a covered loss. we are ultimately responsible for any loss borne by ppic. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes, exchangeable senior debentures, convertible senior debentures and revolving credit agreements, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance and/or refinance our properties and expand our portfolio. because we operate a hotel, we face the risks associated with the hospitality industry. we own and operate the hotel pennsylvania in new york city. the following factors, among others, are common to the hotel industry and may reduce the revenues generated by the hotel, which would reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders: our hotel competes for guests with other hotels, a number of which have greater marketing and financial resources; if there is an increase in operating costs resulting from inflation and other factors, we may not be able to offset such increase by increasing room rates; our hotel is subject to the fluctuating and seasonal demands of business travelers and tourism; our hotel is subject to general and local economic and social conditions that may affect demand for travel in general, including war and terrorism; and physical condition, which may require substantial additional capital. because of the ownership structure of the hotel pennsylvania, we face potential adverse effects from changes to the applicable tax laws. under the internal revenue code, reits like us are not allowed to operate hotels directly or indirectly. accordingly, we lease the hotel pennsylvania to our taxable reit subsidiary ( trs ). while the trs structure allows the economic benefits of ownership to flow to us, the trs is subject to tax on its income from the operations of the hotel at the federal and state level. in addition, the trs is subject to detailed tax regulations that affect how it may be capitalized and operated. if the tax laws applicable to a trs are modified, we may be forced to modify the structure for owning the hotel, and such changes may adversely affect the cash flows from the hotel. in addition, the internal revenue service, the united states treasury department and congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, and we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new fede ral tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. any of such actions may prospectively or retroactively modify the tax treatment of the trs and, therefore, may adversely affect our after-tax returns from the hotel. 10 compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. the americans with disabilities act generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under this act, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the americans with disabilities act, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. our investments are concentrated in the new york city metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia areas. circumstances affecting these areas generally could adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our properties are in the new york city / new jersey metropolitan areas and washington, dc / northern virginia areas are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas. during 2009, approximately 75% of our ebitda, excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the new york city / new jersey metropolitan areas and the washington, dc / northern virginia areas. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the united states or abroad. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns, as they are currently and have been in the past, and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in both the short and long term. declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. the factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; space needs of the united states government, including the effect of base closures and repositioning under the defense base closure and realignment act of 2005, as amended; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; infrastructure quality; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. it is impossible for us to assess with certainty, the future effects of the current adverse trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. if these conditions persist or if there is any further local, national or global economic downturn, our businesses and future profitability will be adversely affected. terrorist attacks, such as those of september 11, 2001 in new york city and the washington, dc area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the new york, washington, dc, chicago, boston and san francisco metropolitan areas. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. 11 we may acquire or sell additional assets or entities or develop additional properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we have grown rapidly since 1998 through acquisitions. we may not be able to maintain this rapid growth and our failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price. we have experienced rapid growth since 1998, increasing our total assets from approximately $4.4 billion at december 31, 1998 to approximately $20.2 billion at december 31, 2009. we may not be able to maintain a similar rate of growth in the future or manage growth effectively. our failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and ability to pay dividends to shareholders. we may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies and this may create risks. we may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategies. we may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. in addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs. when we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover our costs of acquisition and development or in operating the businesses we acquired. difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management attention. acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowl edge may result in poorer than anticipated performance. we may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated. furthermore, acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware at the time of acquisition. in addition, development of our existing properties presents similar risks. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our common shares. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we will believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our common shares and convertible and exchangeable securities. it may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly. real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. as part of an acquisition of a property, including our january 1, 2002 acquisition of charles e. smith commercial realty l.p. 13.0 million square foot portfolio, we may agree, and in the case of charles e. smith commercial realty l.p. did agree, with the seller that we will not dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness on them for a period of 12 years, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance indebtedness that we would otherwise pay down or refinance. on january 1, 2002, we completed the acquisition of the 66% interest in charles e. smith commercial realty l.p. that we did not previously own. the terms of the merger restrict our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of, or to finance or refinance, the properties formerly owned by charles e. smith commercial realty l.p., which could result in our inability to sell these properties at an opportune time and increase costs to us. as indicated above, subject to limited exceptions, we are restricted from selling or otherwise transferring or disposing of certain properties located in the crystal city area of arlington, virginia for a period of 12 years. these restrictions, which currently cover approximately 13.0 million square feet of space, could result in our inability to sell these properties at an opportune time and increase costs to us. 12 from time to time we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries that differ from our current operations, with different risks than investing in real estate. from time to time we make debt or equity investments in other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. these investments include but are not limited to, alexander s, inc., toys r us, lexington realty trust, and equity and mezzanine investments in other entities that have significant real estate assets. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of business including, without limitation, operating or managing toy stores and department stores. consequently, investments in these businesses, among other risks, subjects us to the operating and financial risks of industries other than real estate and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. from time to time we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to additional similar risks. investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures, present additional risks such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. we are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment. a substantial portion of our properties are in the retail shopping center real estate market and we have a significant investment in retailers such as toys. see our investment in toys subjects us to risks different from our other lines of business and may result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings below. this means that we are subject to factors that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the retailers in whi ch we hold an investment and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, and in turn, adversely affect us. we depend upon our anchor tenants to attract shoppers. we own several regional malls and other shopping centers that are typically anchored by well-known department stores and other tenants who generate shopping traffic at the mall or shopping center. the value of our properties would be adversely affected if tenants or anchors failed to meet their contractual obligations, sought concessions in order to continue operations or ceased their operations, including as a result of bankruptcy. if the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to economic conditions, closing of anchors or for other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. in the event of a default by a tenant or anchor, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. our investment in toys subjects us to risks that are different from our other lines of business and may result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings. on july 21, 2005, a joint venture that we own equally with bain capital and kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. acquired toys. because toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. the business of toys is highly seasonal. historically, toys fourth quarter net income accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. in addition, our fiscal year ends on december 31 whereas, as is common for retailers, toys fiscal year ends on the saturday nearest to january 31. therefore, we record our pro-rata share of toys net earnings on a one-quarter lag basis. for example, our financial results for the year ended december 31, 2009 include toys financial results for its first, second and third quarters ended october 31, 2009, as well as toys fourth quarter results of 2008. because of the seasonality of toys, our reported net income shows increased volatility. we may also, in the future and from time to time, invest in other businesses that may report financial results that are more volatile than our historical financial results. our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. we evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period. if we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under generally accepted accounting principles we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired. depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. this loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. 13 we invest in subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets. these investments involve greater risk of loss than investments in senior mortgage loans. we invest, and may in the future invest, in subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets. these investments, which are subordinate to the mortgage loans secured by the real property, are generally secured by pledges of the equity interests of the entities owning the underlying real estate. these investments involve greater risk of loss than investments in senior mortgage loans which are secured by real property. if a borrower defaults on debt to us or on debt senior to us, or declares bankruptcy, we may not be able to recover some or all of our investment. in addition, there may be significant delays and costs associated with the process of foreclosing on collateral securing or supporting these investments. the value of the assets securing or supporting our investments could deteriorate over time d ue to factors beyond our control, including acts or omissions by owners, changes in business, economic or market conditions, or foreclosure. such deteriorations in value may result in the recognition of impairment losses and/or valuation allowances on our statements of income. as of december 31, 2009, our mezzanine debt securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $203,286,000, net of a $190,738,000 valuation allowance. we evaluate the collectibility of both interest and principal of each of our loans each quarter, if circumstances warrant, in determining whether they are impaired. a loan is impaired when based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. when a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the estimated fair value of the loan or, as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if repayment of the loan is collateral dependent. there can be no assurance that our estimates of collectible amounts will not change over time or that they will be representative of the amounts we will actually collect, including amounts we would collect if we chose to sell these investments before their maturity.&n bsp; if we collect less than our estimates, we will record impairment losses which could be material. we invest in marketable equity securities of companies that have significant real estate assets. the value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. we invest, and may in the future invest, in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded real estate companies or companies that have significant real estate assets. as of december 31, 2009, our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $380,652,000. significant declines in the value of these investments due to operating performance or economic or market conditions may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material. our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its net taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. as a result of the current capital markets and environmental conditions referred to above, we and other companies in the real estate industry are currently experiencing limited availability of financing and there can be no assurances as to when more financing will be available. although we believe that we will be ab le to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, new financing may not be available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. 14 vornado realty trust depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred security holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to vornado realty trust. substantially all of vornado realty trust assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado realty trust cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado realty trust direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership ability to make distributions to holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado realty trust ability to pay dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado realty trust. furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of class a units of the operating partnership, including vornado realty trust. thus, vornado realty trust ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its class a units, including vornado realty trust. as of december 31, 2009, there were seven series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado realty trust with a total liquidation value of $340,078,000. in addition, vornado realty trust participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. we have outstanding debt, and it and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. as of december 31, 2009, we had approximately $14.1 billion of total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of partially owned entities. our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value was approximately 47%. when we say enterprise value in the preceding sentence, we mean market equity value of vornado realty trust common and preferred shares plus total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of partially owned entities. in the future, we may incur additional debt to finance acquisitions or property developments and thus increase our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value. if our level of indebtedness increases, there may be an increased risk of a credit rating downgrade or a default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, in a rising interest rat e environment, the cost of existing variable rate debt and any new debt or other market rate security or instrument may increase. furthermore, we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and other loans that we may obtain in the future contain, or may contain, customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition, failure to comply with our c ovenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. we rely on debt financing, including borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, issuances of unsecured debt securities and debt secured by individual properties, to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing from these or other sources, or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. if we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lenders can declare a default and, if the debt is secured, can take possession of the property securing the defaulted loan. 15 vornado realty trust may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may fail to remain qualified in this way. qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. our qualification as a reit also depends on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a reit and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to shareholders. in addition, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. although we curre ntly intend to operate in a manner designed to allow us to qualify as a reit, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to revoke the reit election or fail to qualify as a reit. we face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. from time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. the shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees of vornado realty trust, and michael d. fascitelli, the president and chief executive officer of vornado realty trust. while we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. vornado realty trust charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. our amended and restated declaration of trust sets limits on the ownership of our shares. generally, for vornado realty trust to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado realty trust may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado realty trust taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado realty trust amended and restated declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado realty trust adopted the limit and other pers ons approved by vornado realty trust board of trustees. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado realty trust or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. we refer to vornado realty trust amended and restated declaration of trust, as amended, as the declaration of trust. we have a classified board of trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado realty trust board of trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of vornado realty trust, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of vornado realty trust shareholders. 16 we may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado realty trust declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado realty trust to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado realty trust issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado realty trust may issue. the board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado realty trust or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of vornado realty trust shareholders, although the board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado realty trust declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado realty trust or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. the maryland general corporation law contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. under the maryland general corporation law, as amended, which we refer to as the mgcl, as applicable to reits, certain business combinations, including certain mergers, consolidations, share exchanges and asset transfers and certain issuances and reclassifications of equity securities, between a maryland reit and any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust shares or an affiliate or an associate, as defined in the mgcl, of the trust who, at any time within the two-year period before the date in question, was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust, which we refer to as an interested shareholder, or an affiliate of the interested shareholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent da te on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. after that five-year period, any business combination of these kinds must be recommended by the board of trustees of the trust and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (a) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust and (b) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust other than shares held by the interested shareholder with whom, or with whose affiliate, the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder. these supermajority voting requirements do not apply if the trust common shareholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the mgcl, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common shares. the provisions of the mgcl do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the board of trustees of the applicable trust before the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and a person is not an interested shareholder if the board of trustees approved in advance the transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. in approving a transaction, the board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. vornado realty trust board has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between any trustee or officer of vornado realty trust, or their affiliates, and vornado realty trust. as a result, the trustees and officers of vornado realty trust and their affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado realty trust that may not be in the best interest of its shareholders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado realty trust or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in th e best interest of the shareholders. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado realty trust and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our board of trustees. accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies. 17 our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2009, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners owned approximately 7.3% of the common shares of vornado realty trust and approximately 27.2% of the common stock of alexander s, inc. ( alexander ), which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of vornado realty trust, the managing general partner of interstate properties and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander s. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado realty trust and also directors of alexander s. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado realty trust and on the outcome of any matters submitted to vornado realty trust shareholders for approval. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity or debt holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. vornado realty trust currently manages and leases the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which it receives an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent and certain other commissions. the management agreement has a term of one year and is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on 60 days notice at the end of the term. vornado realty trust earned $782,000, $803,000, and $800,000 of management fees under the management agreement for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. because of the relationship among vornado realty trust, interstate properties and messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight, as described above, the terms of the management agreement and any future agreements between vornado realty trust and interstate properties may not be comparable to those vornado realty trus t could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. there may be conflicts of interest between alexander and us. as of december 31, 2009, the operating partnership owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander s. alexander is a reit engaged in leasing, managing, developing and redeveloping properties, focusing primarily on the locations where its department stores operated before they ceased operations in 1992. alexander has seven properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 32.4% that they own indirectly through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 27.2% of the outstanding common stock of alexander as of december 31, 2009. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of vornado realty trust, the managing general partner of interstate, and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander s. messrs. wight and mandelbaum ar e trustees of vornado realty trust and also directors of alexander and general partners of interstate. michael d. fascitelli is the president and chief executive officer of vornado realty trust and the president of alexander and dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander s. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president and chief financial officer, holds the same position with alexander s. alexander common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol alx. the operating partnership manages, develops and leases the alexander properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which the operating partnership receives annual fees from alexander s. these agreements have a one-year term expiring in march of each year and are all automatically renewable. because vornado realty trust and alexander share common senior management and because certain of the trustees of vornado realty trust constitute a majority of the directors of alexander s, the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements between us and alexander may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. for a description of interstate properties ownership of vornado realty trust and alexander s, see steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us above. 18 the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of our common shares has recently been volatile and may fluctuate. the trading price of our common shares has recently been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common shares. among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are: actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; continued uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other real estate investment trusts; failure to meet analysts revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional interest in us; the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for real estate investment trusts and other real estate related companies; and domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders. vornado realty trust has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares. as of december 31, 2009, we had authorized but unissued, 68,785,839 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 76,047,676 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 34,058,475 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 8,000,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that f uture sales of our common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding shares. increased market interest rates may hurt the value of vornado realty trust common and preferred shares. we believe that investors consider the distribution rate on reit shares, expressed as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates as an important factor in deciding whether to buy or sell the shares. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher distribution rate. higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of vornado realty trust common and preferred shares to decline. 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. market interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. our exposure to a change in interest rates on our consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as follows: (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 2009 2008 december 31, balance weighted average interest rate effect of 1% change in base rates december 31, balance weighted average interest rate consolidated debt: variable rate $ 2,657,972 1.67% $ 26,579 $ 2,002,381 2.71% fixed rate 8,281,643 5.89% 10,435,542 5.76% $ 10,939,615 4.86% 26,579 $ 12,437,923 5.27% pro-rata share of debt of non- consolidated entities (non-recourse): variable rate excluding toys $ 331,980 2.87% 3,319 $ 282,752 3.63% variable rate toys 852,040 3.45% 8,520 819,512 3.68% fixed rate (including $1,077,919 and $1,175,310 of toys debt in 2009 and 2008) 1,965,620 7.16% 2,094,321 6.51% $ 3,149,640 5.70% 11,839 $ 3,196,585 5.53% redeemable noncontrolling interest share of above (3,112 ) total change in annual net income $ 35,306 per share-diluted $ 0.20 we may utilize various financial instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings, including hedging strategies, depending on our analysis of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies. as of december 31, 2009, variable rate debt with an aggregate principal amount of $507,750,000 and a weighted average interest rate of 2.49% was subject to libor caps. these caps are based on a notional amount of $507,750,000 and cap libor at a weighted average rate of 5.39%. as of december 31, 2009, we have investments in mezzanine loans with an aggregate carrying amount of $203,286,000 that are based on variable interest rates which partially mitigate our exposure to a change in interest rates on our variable rate debt. fair value of our debt the estimated fair value of our debt at december 31, 2009 was less than its aggregate carrying amount by approximately $501,467,000 based on current market prices and discounted cash flows at the current interest rates at which we believe similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt. 109risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 3 part i item 1. business the company vornado realty trust ( vornado ) is a fully integrated real estate investment trust ( reit ) and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, vornado realty l.p., a delaware limited partnership (the operating partnership ). vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 93.2% of the common limited partnership interest in the operating partnership at december 31, 2010. all references to we, us, our, the company and vornado refer to vornado realty trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the operating partnership. as of december 31, 2010, we own: office properties : (i) all or portions of 28 properties aggregating 17.4 million square feet in the new york city metropolitan area (primarily manhattan); (ii) all or portions of 82 properties aggregating 21.1 million square feet in the washington, dc / northern virginia area; (iii) a 70% controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building complex aggregating 1.8 million square feet in san francisco's financial district, known as the bank of america center; retail properties : (iv) 161 properties aggregating 25. 6 million square feet primarily in manhattan, the northeast states, california and puerto rico; merchandise mart properties : (v) 6 properties aggregating 6.9 million square feet of showroom and office space, including the 3.5 million square foot merchandise mart in chicago; toys r us, inc. ( toys ): (vi) a 32.7% interest in toys which owns and/or operates 1,5 8 9 stores worldwide, including 8 5 7 stores in the united states and 732 stores internationally; other investments : (vii) 32.4% of the common stock of alexander's, inc. (nyse: alx), which has seven properties aggregating 3. 2 million square feet in the greater new york metropolitan area; (viii) the hotel pennsylvania containing 1.4 million square feet in new york city; (ix) a 9.9% economic interest in j.c. penney company, inc. (nyse: jcp), a major retailer that operates 1,108 department stores nationwide; (x) a 26.2% equity interest in lnr property corporation, an industry leading servicer and special servicer of commercial mortgage loans and cmbs, and a diversified real estate, investment and finance company; (xi) a 36.4% interest in our real estate investment fund in which we are the general partner and investment manager with aggregate equity commitments of $550 million, of which we committed $200 million; and (xii) other real estate and investments, including marketable securities and mezzanine loans on real estate. 4 objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and executing our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit; investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city and washington, dc, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation; acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents; investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the new york city metropolitan area; developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value; and investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component. we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities in the future. business environment substantially all businesses, including ours, were negatively affected by the 2008/2009 economic recession and illiquidity and volatility in the capital and financial markets. although there are signs of an economic recovery and greater stability in the capital and financial markets, it is not possible for us to predict whether these trends will continue in the future or quantify the impact of these or any other trends on our financial results. acquisitions and investments vornado capital partners, l.p. and vornado capital partners parallel, l.p. (the fund ) on july 6, 2010, we completed an initial closing of the fund with aggregate equity commitments of $550,000,000, of which we committed $200,000,000. we expect to close on an additional $250,000,000 of equity commitments in the first quarter of 2011. we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund and it is our exclusive investment vehicle during the three-year investment period for all investments that fit within the fund's investment parameters, including debt, equity and other interests in real estate, and excluding (i) investments in vacant land and ground-up development; (ii) investments acquired by merger or primarily for our securities or properties; (iii) properties which can be combined with or relate to our existing properties; (iv) securities of commercial mortgage loan servicers and investments derived from any such investments; (v) noncontrolling interests in equity and debt securities; and (vi) investments located outside of north america. the fund has a term of eight years. we consolidate the accounts of the fund into our consolidated financial statements. in 2010, we incurred $6,482,000 for organization costs of the fund, net of the fund's reimbursement to us, which are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statement of income. the fund is accounted for under the aicpa investment company guide and its investments are reported on its balance sheet at fair value, with changes in value each period recognized in earnings. as of december 31, 2010, the fund received $146,789,000 of capital from partners, including $53,378,000 from us. during the second half of 2010, the fund made four investments aggregating approximately $145,000,000 and reimbursed us for $1,500,000 of organization costs. 5 acquisitions and investments continued investment in j.c. penney company, inc. ( j.c. penney ) (nyse: jcp) we own an economic interest in 23,400,000 j.c. penney common shares, or 9.9% of j.c. penney's outstanding common shares. below are the details of our investment. we own 18,584,010 common shares at an average price of $25.70 per share, or $477,678,000 in the aggregate. these shares, which have an aggregate fair value of $600,449,000 at december 31, 2010, are included in marketable equity securities on our consolidated balance sheet and are classified as available for sale. of these shares, 15,500,000 were acquired through the exercise of a call option that originated on september 28, 2010 and settled on november 9, 2010. during the period in which the call option was outstanding and classified as a derivative instrument, we recognized $112,537,000 of income from the mark-to-market of the underlying common shares, which is included in interest and other investment income (loss), net on our consolidated statement of income. during the period from november 10 through december 31, 2010, we recognized $10,234,000 from the mark-to-market of the common shares classified as available-for-sale, which is included in accumulated other comprehensive income (a component of shareholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet). we also own an economic interest in 4,815,990 common shares through a forward contract executed on october 7, 2010, at a weighted average strike price of $28.65 per share, or $137,989,000 in the aggregate. the contract may be settled, at our election, in cash or common shares, in whole or in part, at any time prior to october 9, 2012. the counterparty may accelerate settlement, in whole or in part, upon one year's notice to us. the strike price per share increases at an annual rate of libor plus 80 basis points and decreases for dividends received on the shares. the contract is a derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. mark-to-market adjustments on the underlying common shares are recognized in interest and other investment income (loss), net on our consolidated statement of income. during the period from october 7, 2010 through december 31, 2010, we recognized $17,616,000 of income from the mark-to-market of this position, based on j.c. penney's closing share price of $32.31 per share at december 31, 2010. as of december 31, 2010, the aggregate economic net gain on our investment in j.c. penney was $140,387,000, based on j.c. penney's closing share price of $32.31 per share and our weighted average cost of $26.31 per share. investment in lnr property corporation ( lnr ) on july 29, 2010, as a part of lnr's recapitalization, we acquired a 26.2% equity interest in lnr for $116,000,000 in cash and conversion into equity of our $15,000,000 mezzanine loan (the then current carrying amount) made to lnr's parent, riley holdco corp. the recapitalization involved an infusion of a total of $417,000,000 in new cash equity and the reduction of lnr's total debt to $425,000,000 from $1.3 billion, excluding liabilities related to the consolidated cmbs and cdo trusts described below. we account for our equity interest in lnr under the equity method on a one-quarter lag basis. lnr consolidates certain commercial mortgage-backed securities ( cmbs ) and collateralized debt obligation ( cdo ) trusts for which it is the primary beneficiary. the assets of these trusts (primarily commercial mortgage loans), which aggregate approximately $142 billion as of september 30, 2010, are the sole source of repayment of the related liabilities, which are non-recourse to lnr and its equity holders, including us. changes in the fair value of these assets each period are offset by changes in the fair value of the related liabilities through lnr's consolidated income statement. 510 fifth avenue on october 8, 2010, we acquired 510 fifth avenue, a 59,000 square foot retail property located at 43 rd street and fifth avenue in new york, for $57,000,000, comprised of $24,700,000 in cash and $32,300,000 of existing debt. san jose, california on october 15, 2010, we acquired the 55% interest that we did not already own of a 646,000 square foot retail property located in san jose, california, for $97,000,000, consisting of $27,000,000 in cash and $70,000,000 of existing debt. atlantic city, new jersey on november 4, 2010, we acquired 11.3 acres of the land under a portion of the borgata hotel and casino complex for $83,000,000 in cash. the land is leased to the partnership that controls the borgata hotel and casino complex through december 2070. in january 2011, we completed a 10-year $60,000,000 financing of this land. the loan has a fixed interest rate of 5.14% and amortizes beginning in the third year, based on a 30-year schedule. 6 dispositions on october 20, 2010, we sold a 45% ownership interest in 1299 pennsylvania avenue (the warner building) and 1101 17 th street, for $236,700,000, comprised of $91,000,000 in cash and the assumption of existing mortgage debt. we retained the remaining 55% ownership interest and continue to manage and lease the properties. based on the warner building's implied fair value of $445,000,000, we recognized a net gain of $54,000,000 in the fourth quarter of 2010. the gain on 1101 17 th street, based on an implied fair value of $81,000,000, will be recognized when we monetize our investment. on january 12, 2011, we sold 1140 connecticut avenue and contracted to sell 1227 25 th street, subject to customary closing conditions, for an aggregate price of $127,000,000. we will retain net proceeds of approximately $107,000,000, after repaying an existing mortgage and recognize a net gain of approximately $44,000,000 in the first quarter of 2011. in march 2010, we ceased making debt service payments on the mortgage loan secured by the high point complex in north carolina as a result of insufficient cash flow and the loan went into default. in november 2010, the property was placed in receivership. while the receivership process is inherently lengthy, we anticipate that the property will be sold in the first half of 2011, at which time the assets and liabilities will be removed from our consolidated balance sheet and we will recognize a net gain of approximately $80,000,000. financing activities on february 11, 2011, we completed a $425,000,000 refinancing of two penn plaza, a 1.6 million square foot manhattan office building. the seven-year loan bears interest at libor plus 2.00%, which was swapped for the term of the loan to a fixed rate of 5.13%. the loan amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the fourth year. we retained net proceeds of approximately $139,000,000 after repaying the existing loan and closing costs. on february 10, 2011, we completed a $150,000,000 financing of 2121 crystal drive, a 506,000 square foot office building located in crystal city, arlington, virginia. the 12-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 5.51% and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in third year. this property was previously unencumbered. on january 10, 2011, we completed a $75,000,000 financing of north bergen (tonnelle avenue), a 410,000 square foot strip shopping center. the seven-year fixed rate loan bears interest rate at 4.59%, provides for interest only payments during the first five years of the term and amortizes based on a 25-year schedule. this property was previously unencumbered. in december 2010, we acquired the mortgage loan secured by the springfield mall, located in fairfax county, virginia for $115,000,000 in cash. the loan had an outstanding balance of $171,500,000. in a separate transaction, we acquired our partner's interest in the partnership that owns the mall in exchange for $25,000,000 in operating partnership units. these transactions resulted in a $102,932,000 net gain on early extinguishment of debt. in august 2010, we sold $660,000,000 of 10-year mortgage notes in a single issuer securitization. the notes are comprised of a $600,000,000 fixed rate component and a $60,000,000 variable rate component and are cross-collateralized by 40 of our strip shopping centers. the $600,000,000 fixed rate portion bears interest at an initial rate of 4.18% and a weighted average rate of 4.31% over the 10-year term and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule. the variable rate portion bears interest at libor plus 1.36%, with a 1% floor (2.36% at december 31, 2010). in march 2010, we completed a public offering of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.25% senior unsecured notes due april 1, 2015 and retained net proceeds of approximately $496,000,000. the notes were sold at 99.834% of their face amount to yield 4.287%. the notes can be redeemed without penalty beginning january 1, 2015. in 2010, through open market repurchases and tender offers, we purchased $270,491,000 aggregate face amount ($264,476,000 aggregate carrying amount) of our convertible senior debentures and $17,000,000 aggregate face amount ($16,981,000 aggregate carrying amount) of our senior unsecured notes for $274,857,000 and $17,382,000 in cash, respectively, resulting in a net loss of $10,381,000 and $401,000, respectively. 7 development and redevelopment projects we expended $156,775,000 in 2010 to complete development projects. on october 1, 2010, arlington county adopted a new sector plan for crystal city that provides for additional density and increased building heights which would permit us to grow our assets in crystal city from 8.0 million square feet currently to as much as 11.5 million square feet . during 2010, we entered into agreements with cuyahoga county, ohio (the county ) to develop and operate the cleveland medical mart and convention center (the facility ), a 1,000,000 square foot showroom, trade show and conference center in cleveland's central business district. the county will fund the development of the facility, using proceeds from the issuance of general obligation bonds and other sources, up to the development budget of $465,000,000 and maintain effective control of the property. during the 17-year development and operating period, we will receive net settled payments of approximately $10,000,000 per year, which is net of our $36,000,000 annual obligation to the county. our obligation has been pledged by the county to the bondholders, but is payable by us only to the extent that we first receive at least an equal payment from the county. we engaged a contractor to construct the facility pursuant to a guaranteed maximum price contract. although we are ultimately responsible for cost overruns, the contractor is responsible for all costs incurred in excess of its contract and has provided a completion guaranty. construction of the facility is expected to be completed in 2013. subsequent thereto, we are required to fund $11,500,000, primarily for tenant improvements, are responsible for all operating expenses and are entitled to the net operating income, if any, of the facility. the county may terminate the operating agreement five years from the completion of development and periodically thereafter, if we fail to achieve certain performance thresholds. we plan to account for these agreements using criteria set forth in asc 605-25, multiple-element arrangements, as we are providing development, marketing, leasing, and other property management related services over the 17-year term. we plan to recognize development fees using the percentage of completion method of accounting. we are also evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities for which final plans, budgeted costs and financing have yet to be determined. these projects include the springfield mall in springfield, virginia and the hotel pennsylvania and 220 central park south in manhattan. there can be no assurance that any of our development projects will commence, or if commenced, be completed on schedule or within budget. segment data we operate in the following business segments: new york office properties, washington, dc office properties, retail properties, merchandise mart properties and toys r us. financial information related to these business segments for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is set forth in note 22 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. the merchandise mart properties segment has trade show operations in canada and switzerland. the toys segment has 732 locations internationally. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the business of toys is highly seasonal. historically, toys' fourth quarter net income, which we record on a one-quarter lag basis in our first quarter, accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. the new york and washington, dc office properties and merchandise mart properties segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. the merchandise mart properties segment has also experienced higher earnings in the second and fourth quarters of the year due to major trade shows occurring in those quarters. the retail properties segment revenue in the fourth quarter is typically higher due to the recognition of percentage rental income. 8 tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. certain activities we are not required to base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold as circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. while we may seek the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by our board of trustees without the vote of shareholders. employees as of december 31, 2010, we have approximately 4,780 employees, of which 317 are corporate staff. the new york office properties segment has 126 employees and an additional 2,680 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york office and washington, dc office properties. the washington, dc office properties, retail properties and merchandise mart properties segments have 400, 176 and 576 employees, respectively, and the hotel pennsylvania has 505 employees. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities, including toys or alexander's, of which we own 32.7% and 32.4%, respectively. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k, and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial information about us, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. 9 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to various factors. the value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; the development and/or redevelopment of our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to obtain adequate insurance; changes in zoning laws and taxation; government regulation; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; natural disasters; general competitive factors; and climate changes. the rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy, which have recently negatively affected substantially all businesses, including ours. demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide as it did in 2008 and 2009, due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the va lue of our debt and equity securities. real estate is a competitive business. our business segments new york office properties, washington, dc office properties, retail properties, merchandise mart properties and toys operate in a highly competitive environment. we have a large concentration of properties in the new york city metropolitan area and in the washington, dc / northern virginia area. we compete with a large number of property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. principal factors of competition are rents charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national, regional and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of cap ital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population trends. 10 we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. during periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. in the case of our shopping centers, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available for the payment of indebtedness or for distribution to shareholders. we may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contaminati on may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. the environmental assessments did not, as of this date, reveal any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. although neither inflation nor deflation has materially impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on our mortgages and interest rates and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants' sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable. conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income. in addition, we own residential properties which are leased to tenants with one-year lease terms. because these are short-term leases, declines in market rents will impact our residential properties faster than if the leases were for longer terms. 11 some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, including coverage for terrorist acts, with sub-limits for certain perils such as floods. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $150,000,000 per occurrence, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property, up to a $150,000,000 annual aggregate. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage and as a direct insurer for coverage for acts of terrorism, including nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) acts, as defined by tripra. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. our coverage for nbcr losses is up to $2 billion per occurrence, for which ppic is responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 and 15% of the balance of a covered loss and the federal government is responsible for the remaining 85% of a covered loss. we are ultimately responsible for any loss borne by ppic. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes, exchangeable senior debentures, convertible senior debentures and revolving credit agreements, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio. because we operate a hotel, we face the risks associated with the hospitality industry. we own and operate the hotel pennsylvania in new york city. the following factors, among others, are common to the hotel industry and may reduce the revenues generated by the hotel, which would reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders: our hotel competes for guests with other hotels, a number of which have greater marketing and financial resources; if there is an increase in operating costs resulting from inflation and other factors, we may not be able to offset such increase by increasing room rates; our hotel is subject to the fluctuating and seasonal demands of business travelers and tourism; our hotel is subject to general and local economic and social conditions that may affect demand for travel in general, including war and terrorism; and physical condition, which may require substantial additional capital. because of the ownership structure of the hotel pennsylvania, we face potential adverse effects from changes to the applicable tax laws. under the internal revenue code, reits like us are not allowed to operate hotels directly or indirectly. accordingly, we lease the hotel pennsylvania to our taxable reit subsidiary ( trs ). while the trs structure allows the economic benefits of ownership to flow to us, the trs is subject to tax on its income from the operations of the hotel at the federal and state level. in addition, the trs is subject to detailed tax regulations that affect how it may be capitalized and operated. if the tax laws applicable to a trs are modified, we may be forced to modify the structure for owning the hotel, and such changes may adversely affect the cash flows from the hotel. in addition, the internal revenue service, the united states treasury department and congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, and we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. any such actions may prospectively or retroactively modify the tax treatment of the trs and, therefore, may adversely affect our after-tax returns from the hotel. 12 compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. the americans with disabilities act ( ada ) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ada, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the ada, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. we face risks associated with our tenants being designated prohibited persons by the office of foreign assets control. pursuant to executive order 13224 and other laws, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury ( ofac ) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned ( prohibited persons ) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the united states. our leases, loans and other agreements may require us to comply with ofac requirements. if a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the ofac list we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement. any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. 13 our investments are concentrated in the new york city metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area. circumstances affecting these areas generally could adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our properties are located in the new york city / new jersey metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas. during 2010, approximately 74% of our ebitda, excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the new york city / new jersey metropolitan areas and the washington, dc / northern virginia area. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the united states or abroad. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the short or long term. declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. the factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; space needs of the united states government, including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and repositioning under the defense base closure and realignment act of 2005, as amended; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; infrastructure quality; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. it is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability. terrorist attacks, such as those of september 11, 2001 in new york city and the washington, dc area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the new york, washington, dc, chicago, boston and san francisco metropolitan areas. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. we may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we have grown rapidly since 1999 through acquisitions. we may not be able to maintain this rapid growth and our failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price. we have experienced rapid growth since 1999, increasing our total assets from approximately $5.5 billion at december 31, 1999 to approximately $20.5 billion at december 31, 2010. we may not be able to maintain a similar rate of growth in the future or manage growth effectively. our failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as the amount of cash available for distributions to shareholders. 14 we may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies and this may create risks. we may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategy. we may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. in addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs. when we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover costs of acquisition or development and operations. difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management's attention. acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. we may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated. furthermore, acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware at the time of acquisition. development of our existing properties presents similar risks. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our common shares. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we will believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our common shares and convertible and exchangeable securities. it may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. as part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance. from time to time we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries that differ from our current operations, with different risks than investing in real estate. from time to time we make debt or equity investments in other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. these investments include but are not limited to, alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ), toys r us ( toys ), lexington realty trust ( lexington ), j.c. penney company, inc. ( j.c. penney ), lnr property corporation ( lnr ) and other equity and mezzanine investments. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of business including, without limitation, operating or managing toy stores and department stores. consequently, investments in these businesses, among other risks, subjects us to the operating and fina ncial risks of industries other than real estate and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. from time to time we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures, present additional risks such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. 15 we are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment. a substantial portion of our properties are in the retail shopping center real estate market and we have a significant investment in retailers such as toys and j.c. penney. this means that we are subject to factors that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the retailers in which we hold an investment and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, and in turn, adversely affect us. our investment in toys subjects us to risks that are different from our other lines of business and may result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings. because toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. the business of toys is highly seasonal. historically, toys fourth quarter net income accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. in addition, our fiscal year ends on december 31 whereas, as is common for retailers, toys' fiscal year ends on the saturday nearest to january 31. therefore, we record our pro-rata share of toys' net earnings on a one-quarter lag basis. for example, our financial results for the year ended december 31, 2010 include toys' financial results for its first, second and third quarters ended october 30, 2010, as well as toys' fourth quarter results of 2009. because of the seasonality of toys, our reported net incom e shows increased volatility. we may also, in the future and from time to time, invest in other businesses that may report financial results that are more volatile than our historical financial results. we depend upon our anchor tenants to attract shoppers. we own several regional malls and other shopping centers that are typically anchored by well-known department stores and other tenants who generate shopping traffic at the mall or shopping center. the value of our properties would be adversely affected if tenants or anchors failed to meet their contractual obligations, sought concessions in order to continue operations or ceased their operations, including as a result of bankruptcy. if the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to economic conditions, closing of anchors or for other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. in the event of a default by a tenant or anchor, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. we evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period. if we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired. depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. this loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. we invest in subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets. these investments involve greater risk of loss than investments in senior mortgage loans. we invest, and may in the future invest, in subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets. these investments, which are subordinate to the mortgage loans secured by the real property, are generally secured by pledges of the equity interests of the entities owning the underlying real estate. these investments involve greater risk of loss than investments in senior mortgage loans which are secured by real property. if a borrower defaults on debt to us or on debt senior to us, or declares bankruptcy, we may not be able to recover some or all of our investment. in addition, there may be significant delays and costs associated with the process of foreclosing on collateral securing or supporting these investments. the value of the assets securing or supporting our investments could deteriorate over time due to factors beyond our control, including acts or omissions by owners, changes in business, economic or market conditions, or foreclosure. such deteriorations in value may result in the recognition of impairment losses and/or valuation allowances on our statements of income. as of december 31, 2010, our investments in mezzanine debt securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $202,412,000, net of a $73,216,000 valuation allowance. 16 we evaluate the collectability of both interest and principal of each of our loans whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such amounts may not be recoverable. a loan is impaired when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. when a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the estimated fair value of the loan or, as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. there can be no assurance that our estimates of collectible amounts will not change over time or that they will be representative of the amounts we will actually collect, including amounts we would collect if we chose to sell these investments before their maturity. if we collect less than our estimates, we will record impairment losses which could be material. we invest in marketable equity securities of companies that have significant real estate assets. the value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. we invest in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded real estate companies or companies that have significant real estate assets, such as j.c. penney. as of december 31, 2010, our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $766,116,000. significant declines in the value of these investments due to operating performance or economic or market conditions may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material. our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management&#82 17;s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. vornado realty trust ( vornado ) depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred security holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to vornado. substantially all of vornado's assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make d istributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado's ability to pay dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado. furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of class a units of the operating partnership, including vornado. thus, vornado's ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its class a units, including vornado. as of december 31, 2010, there were seven series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado with a total liquidation value of $316,165,000. in addition, vornado's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. 17 we have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately $13. 8 billion of total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of partially owned entities, and excluding $37 billion for our pro rata share of lnr's liabilities related to its consolidated cmbs and cdo trusts, which are non-recourse to lnr and its equity holders, including us. our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value was approximately 44%. when we say enterprise value in the preceding sentence, we mean market equity value of our common and preferred shares plus total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of partially owned entities, and excluding lnr's liabilities related to its consolidated cmbs and cdo trusts. in the future, we may incur additional debt to fin ance acquisitions or property developments and thus increase our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value. if our level of indebtedness increases, there may be an increased risk of a credit rating downgrade or a default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, in a rising interest rate environment, the cost of existing variable rate debt and any new debt or other market rate security or instrument may increase. furthermore, we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and other loans that we may obtain in the future contain, or may contain, customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition , failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. we rely on debt financing, including borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, issuances of unsecured debt securities and debt secured by individual properties, to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing from these or other sources, or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. if we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lenders can declare a default and, if the debt is secured, can take possession of the property securing the defaulted loan. vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may fail to remain qualified in this way. qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. our qualification as a reit also depends on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a reit and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to shareholders. in addition, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. although we currently intend to operate in a manner designed to allow us to qualify as a reit, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to revoke the reit election or fail to qualify as a reit. 18 we face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. from time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. the shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees of vornado, and michael d. fascitelli, the president and chief executive officer of vornado. while we believe that we could find replacements for these and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. vornado's charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. our amended and restated declaration of trust sets limits on the ownership of our shares. generally, for vornado to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado's taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado's amended and restated declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by vornado's board of trustees. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. we refer to vornado's amended and restated declaration of trust, as amended, as the declaration of trust. vornado has a classified board of trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's board of trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of vornado, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. we may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado may issue. the board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders, although the board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado's declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. 19 the maryland general corporation law contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. under the maryland general corporation law, as amended, which we refer to as the mgcl, as applicable to reits, certain business combinations, including certain mergers, consolidations, share exchanges and asset transfers and certain issuances and reclassifications of equity securities, between a maryland reit and any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust's shares or an affiliate or an associate, as defined in the mgcl, of the trust who, at any time within the two-year period before the date in question, was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust, which we refer to as an interested shareholder, or an affiliate of the interested shareholder, are prohibited fo r five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. after that five-year period, any business combination of these kinds must be recommended by the board of trustees of the trust and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (a) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust and (b) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust other than shares held by the interested shareholder with whom, or with whose affiliate, the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder. these supermajority voting requirements do not apply if the trust's common shareholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the mgcl, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common hares. the provisions of the mgcl do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the board of trustees of the applicable trust before the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and a person is not an interested shareholder if the board of trustees approved in advance the transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. in approving a transaction, the board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. vornado's board has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between vornado and any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates. as a result, any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado that may not be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. th e business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our board of trustees. accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies. our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2010, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners owned approximately 7.0% of the common shares of vornado and approximately 27.2% of the common stock of alexander's, which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado and on the outcome of any matters submitted to vornado 's shareholders for approval. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity or debt holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander's currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of pote ntial business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. 20 we currently manage and lease the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent. the management agreement has a one-year term and is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on 60 days' notice at the end of the term. because of the relationship among vornado, interstate properties and messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight, as described above, the terms of the management agreement and any future agreements between us and interstate properties may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. there may be conflicts of interest between alexander's and us. as of december 31, 2010, we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's. alexander's is a reit engaged in leasing, managing, developing and redeveloping properties, focusing primarily on the locations where its department stores operated before they ceased operations in 1992. alexander's has seven properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 2.3% that they indirectly own through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 27.2% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's as of december 31, 2010. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate, and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's and general partners of interstate. michael d. fascitelli is the president and chief executive officer of vornado and the president of alexander's and dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander's. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president and chief financial officer, holds the same position with alexander's. alexander's common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol alx. we manage, develop and lease alexander's properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from alexander's. these agreements have a one-year term expiring in march of each year and are all automatically renewable. because vornado and alexander's share common senior management and because certain of the trustees of vornado constitute a majority of the directors of alexander's, the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements between us and alexander's may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. for a description of interstate properties' ownership of vornado and alexander's, see steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us above. 21 the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our common shares. among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are: our financial condition and performance; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other real estate investment trusts; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional interest in us; the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for real estate investment trusts and other real estate related companies; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this document. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders. vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares. the interests of our current shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. as of december 31, 2010, we had authorized but unissued, 66,338,125 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 77,659,991 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 39,203,325 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 7,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding shares. increased market interest rates may hurt the value of our common and preferred shares. we believe that investors consider the distribution rate on reit shares, expressed as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates as an important factor in deciding whether to buy or sell the shares. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher distribution rate. higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common and preferred shares to decline. 22risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 3 part i item 1. business vornado realty trust ( vornado ) is a fully integrated real estate investment trust ( reit ) and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, vornado realty l.p., a delaware limited partnership (the operating partnership ). accordingly, vornado's cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the operating partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors. vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 93.5% of the common limited partnership interest in the operating partnership at december 31, 2011. all references to we, us, our, the company and vornado refer to vornado realty trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the operating partnership. as of december 31, 2011, we own all or portions of: office properties: in midtown manhattan 30 properties aggregating 20.8 million square feet; in the washington, dc / northern virginia area 77 properties aggregating 20.5 million square feet, including 63 office properties aggregating 17.5 million square feet and seven residential properties containing 2,424 units; in san francisco's financial district a 70% controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building office complex aggregating 1.8 million square feet, known as the bank of america center; retail properties: in manhattan 2.2 million square feet in 46 properties, of which 1.0 million square feet in 21 properties is in our retail properties segment and 1.2 million square feet in 25 properties is in our new york office properties segment; 134 strip shopping centers, regional malls, and single tenant retail assets aggregating 24.2 million square feet, primarily in the northeast states, california and puerto rico; merchandise mart properties: 5.7 million square feet of showroom and office space, including the 3.5 million square foot merchandise mart in chicago; other real estate and related investments: a 32.4% interest in alexander's, inc. (nyse: alx), which owns seven properties in the greater new york metropolitan area, including 731 lexington avenue, the 1.3 million square foot bloomberg headquarters building; a 25.0% interest in vornado capital partners, our $800 million real estate fund. we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund; the 1,700 room hotel pennsylvania in midtown manhattan; a 32.7% interest in toys r us, inc.; an 11.0% interest in j.c. penney company, inc. (nyse: jcp); and other real estate and related investments, marketable securities and mezzanine loans on real estate, including a 26.2% equity interest in lnr property corporation, an industry leading mortgage servicer and special servicer. 4 objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and executing our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit; investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city and washington, dc, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation; acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents; investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the new york city metropolitan area; developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value; and investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component. we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the future. vornado capital partners real estate fund (the fund ) in february 2011, the fund's subscription period closed with an aggregate of $800,000,000 of capital commitments, of which we committed $200,000,000. we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund, which has an eight-year term and a three-year investment period. during the investment period, which concludes in july 2013, the fund is our exclusive investment vehicle for all investments that fit within its investment parameters, including debt, equity and other interests in real estate, and excluding (i) investments in vacant land and ground-up development; (ii) investments acquired by merger or primarily for our securities or properties; (iii) properties which can be combined with or relate to our existing properties; (iv) securities of commercial mortgage loan servicers and investments derived from any such investments; (v) non-controlling interests in equity and debt securities; and (vi) investments located outside of north america. the fund is accounted for under the aicpa investment company guide and its investments are reported on its balance sheet at fair value, with changes in value each period recognized in earnings. we consolidate the accounts of the fund into our consolidated financial statements, retaining the fair value basis of accounting. during 2011, the fund made three investments (described below) aggregating $248,500,000 and exited two investments. as of december 31, 2011, the fund has five investments with an aggregate fair value of approximately $346,650,000, or $11,995,000 in excess of cost, and has remaining unfunded commitments of $416,600,000, of which our share is $104,150,000. one park avenue on march 1, 2011, the fund as a co-investor (64.7% interest), together with vornado (30.3% interest), acquired a 95% interest in one park avenue, a 932,000 square foot office building located between 32 nd and 33 rd streets in new york, for $374,000,000. the purchase price consisted of $137,000,000 in cash and 95% of a $250,000,000 five-year mortgage that bears interest at 5.0%. crowne plaza times square on december 16, 2011, the fund formed a joint venture with the owner of the property to recapitalize the crowne plaza hotel in times square. the property is located at 48th street and broadway in times square and is comprised of a 795-key hotel, 14,000 square feet of prime retail space, 212,000 square feet of office space, nine large signage offerings, a 159-space parking garage and a health club. the joint venture plans to reconfigure and reposition the retail and office space as well as add additional signage. vornado will manage and lease the commercial components of the property and the joint venture partner will asset manage the hotel. this transaction was initiated by us in may 2011, when the fund acquired a $34,000,000 mezzanine position in the junior most tranche of the property's mezzanine debt. in december 2011, the fund contributed $31,000,000 and its partner contributed $22,000,000 of new capital to pay down third party debt and for future capital expenditures. the new capital was contributed in the form of debt that is convertible into preferred equity that receives a priority return and then will receive a profit participation. the fund has an economic interest of approximately 38% in the property. the fund's investment is subordinate to the property's $259,000,000 of senior debt which matures in december 2013, with a one-year extension option. 5 vornado capital partners real estate fund (the fund ) - continued 11 east 68 th street on december 29, 2011, the fund committed to acquire the retail portion of 11 east 68 th street, an 11-story residential and retail property located on madison avenue and 68 th street, for $50,500,000. the retail portion of the property consists of two retail units aggregating 5,000 square feet. the fund provided $21,200,000 at closing and will provide the remaining $29,300,000 over the next two years. in addition, the fund has also provided a $21,000,000 mezzanine loan on the residential portion of the property, which bears paid-in-kind interest at 15%, matures in three years and has a one-year extension option. acquisitions and investments 1399 new york avenue (the executive tower ) on december 23, 2011, we acquired the 97.5% interest that we did not already own in the executive tower, an 11-story, 128,000 square foot class a office building located in the washington, cbd east end submarket close to the white house, for $104,000,000 in cash. 666 fifth avenue office on december 16, 2011, we formed a joint venture with an affiliate of the kushner companies to recapitalize the office portion of 666 fifth avenue, a 39-story, 1.4 million square foot class a office building in manhattan, located on the full block front of fifth avenue between 52nd and 53rd street. we acquired a 49.5% interest in the property from the kushner companies, the current owner. in connection therewith, the existing $1,215,000,000 mortgage loan was modified by lnr, the special servicer, into a $1,100,000,000 a-note and a $115,000,000 b-note and extended to february 2019; and a portion of the current pay interest was deferred to the b-note. we and the kushner companies have committed to lend the joint venture an aggregate of $110,000,000 (of which our share is $80,000,000) for tenant improvements and working capital for the property, which is senior to the $115,000,000 b-note. in addition, we have provided the a-note holders a limited recourse and cooperation guarantee of up to $75,000,000 if an event of default occurs and is ongoing. independence plaza on june 17, 2011, a joint venture in which we are a 51% partner invested $55,000,000 in cash (of which we contributed $35,000,000) to acquire a face amount of $150,000,000 of mezzanine loans and a $35,000,000 participation in a senior loan on independence plaza, a residential complex comprised of three 39-story buildings in the tribeca submarket of manhattan. 280 park avenue joint venture on march 16, 2011, we formed a 50/50 joint venture with sl green realty corp to own the mezzanine debt of 280 park avenue, a 1.2 million square foot office building located between 48th and 49th streets in manhattan (the property ). we contributed our mezzanine loan with a face amount of $73,750,000 and they contributed their mezzanine loans with a face amount of $326,250,000 to the joint venture. we equalized our interest in the joint venture by paying our partner $111,250,000 in cash and assuming $15,000,000 of their debt. on may 17, 2011, as part of the recapitalization of the property, the joint venture contributed its debt position for 99% of the common equity of a new joint venture which owns the property. the new joint venture's investment is subordinate to $710,000,000 of third party debt. the new joint venture expects to spend $150,000,000 for re-tenanting and repositioning the property. 6 dispositions on january 6, 2012, we completed the sale of 350 west mart center, a 1.2 million square foot office building located in chicago, illinois, for $228,000,000 in cash, which resulted in a net gain of $54,200,000 that will be recognized in the first quarter of 2012. on march 31, 2011, the receiver completed the disposition of the high point complex in north carolina. in connection therewith, the property and related debt were removed from our consolidated balance sheet and we recognized a net gain of $83,907,000 on the extinguishment of debt. on january 12, 2011, we sold 1140 connecticut avenue and 1227 25 th street in washington, dc, for $127,000,000 in cash, which resulted in a net gain of $45,862,000. in 2011, we sold three retail properties in separate transactions for an aggregate of $40,990,000 in cash, which resulted in net gains of $5,761,000. financing activities senior unsecured debt on november 30, 2011, we completed a public offering of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.0%, ten-year senior unsecured notes and retained net proceeds of approximately $395,584,000. the notes were sold at 99.546% of their face amount to yield 5.057%. in 2011, we renewed both of our unsecured revolving credit facilities aggregating $2,500,000,000. the first facility, which was renewed in june 2011, bears interest on drawn amounts at libor plus 1.35% and has a 0.30% facility fee (drawn or undrawn). the second facility, which was renewed in november 2011, bears interest on drawn amounts at libor plus 1.25% and has a 0.25% facility fee (drawn or undrawn). the libor spread and facility fee on both facilities are based on our credit ratings. both facilities mature in four years and have one-year extension options. as of december 31, 2011, an aggregate of $138,000,000 was outstanding under these facilities. secured debt on january 9, 2012, we completed a $300,000,000 refinancing of 350 park avenue, a 557,000 square foot manhattan office building. the five-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 3.75% and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the third year. the proceeds of the new loan and $132,000,000 of existing cash were used to repay the existing loan and closing costs. on december 28, 2011, we completed a $330,000,000 refinancing of eleven penn plaza, a 1.1 million square foot manhattan office building. the seven-year loan bears interest at libor plus 2.35% and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the fourth year. we retained net proceeds of approximately $126,000,000 after repaying the existing loan and closing costs. on september 1, 2011, we completed a $600,000,000 refinancing of 555 california street, a three-building office complex aggregating 1.8 million square feet in san francisco's financial district, known as the bank of america center, in which we own a 70% controlling interest. the 10-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 5.10% and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the fourth year. the proceeds of the new loan and $45,000,000 of existing cash were used to repay the existing loan and closing costs. on may 11, 2011, we repaid the outstanding balance of the construction loan on west end 25, and closed on a $101,671,000 mortgage at a fixed rate of 4.88%. the loan has a 10-year term and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the sixth year. on february 11, 2011, we completed a $425,000,000 refinancing of two penn plaza, a 1.6 million square foot manhattan office building. the seven-year loan bears interest at libor plus 2.00%, which was swapped for the term of the loan to a fixed rate of 5.13%. the loan amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the fourth year. we retained net proceeds of approximately $139,000,000 after repaying the existing loan and closing costs. on february 10, 2011, we completed a $150,000,000 financing of 2121 crystal drive, a 506,000 square foot office building located in crystal city, arlington, virginia. the 12-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 5.51% and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the third year. this property was previously unencumbered. 7 financing activities - continued secured debt - continued on january 18, 2011, we repaid the outstanding balance of the construction loan on 220 20 th street and closed on a $76,100,000 mortgage at a fixed rate of 4.61%. the loan has a seven-year term and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule. on january 10, 2011, we completed a $75,000,000 financing of north bergen (tonnelle avenue), a 410,000 square foot strip shopping center. the seven-year fixed rate loan bears interest rate at 4.59% and amortizes based on a 25-year schedule beginning in the sixth year. this property was previously unencumbered. on january 6, 2011, we completed a $60,000,000 financing of land under a portion of the borgata hotel and casino complex. the 10-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 5.14% and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the third year. preferred equity on april 20, 2011, we sold 7,000,000 6.875% series j cumulative redeemable preferred shares at a price of $25.00 per share, in an underwritten public offering pursuant to an effective registration statement. on april 21, 2011, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase an additional 1,050,000 shares to cover over-allotments. on may 5, 2011 and august 5, 2011 we sold an additional 800,000 and 1,000,000 shares, respectively, at a price of $25.00 per share. we retained aggregate net proceeds of $238,842,000, after underwriters' discounts and issuance costs and contributed the net proceeds to the operating partnership in exchange for 9,850,000 series j preferred units (with economic terms that mirror those of the series j preferred shares). 8 development and redevelopment projects we are evaluating various development and redevelopment opportunities which we estimate could require as much as $1.5 billion to be expended over the next five years. these opportunities include: demolition of a 372,000 square foot office building in crystal city, to construct a 700,000 square foot office building; renovation of the hotel pennsylvania; construction of a luxury residential condominium at 220 central park south, adjacent to central park; re-tenanting and repositioning of 330 west 34 th street; re-tenanting and repositioning of 280 park avenue; complete renovation of the 1.4 million square foot springfield mall; and re-tenanting and repositioning a number of our strip shopping centers. we are also evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities at certain of our properties in manhattan, rosslyn, pentagon city and crystal city, for which plans, budgeted costs and financings have yet to be determined. cleveland medical mart development project in 2010, two of our wholly owned subsidiaries entered into agreements with cuyahoga county, ohio (the county ) to develop and operate the cleveland medical mart and convention center (the facility ), a 1,000,000 square foot showroom, trade show and conference center in cleveland's central business district. the county is funding the development of the facility, using the proceeds it received from the issuance of general obligation bonds and other sources, up to the development budget of $465,000,000 and maintain effective control of the property. during the 17-year development and operating period, our subsidiaries will receive net settled payments of approximately $10,000,000 per year, which are net of its $36,000,000 annual obligation to the county. our subsidiaries' obligation has been pledged by the county to the bondholders, but is payable by our subsidiaries only to the extent that they first receive at least an equal payment from the county. construction of the facility is expected to be completed in 2013. as of december 31, 2011, $145,824,000 of the $465,000,000 development budget was expended. there can be no assurance that any of our development projects will commence, or if commenced, be completed on schedule or within budget. 9 segment data we operate in the following business segments: new york office properties, washington, dc office properties, retail properties, merchandise mart properties and toys r us ( toys ). financial information related to these business segments for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is set forth in note 22 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. the merchandise mart properties segment has trade show operations in canada and switzerland. the toys segment has 770 locations internationally. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the business of toys is highly seasonal. historically, toys' fourth quarter net income, which we record on a one-quarter lag basis in our first quarter, accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. the new york and washington, dc office properties and merchandise mart properties segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. the merchandise mart properties segment has also experienced higher earnings in the second and fourth quarters of the year due to major trade shows occurring in those quarters. the retail properties segment revenue in the fourth quarter is typically higher due to the recognition of percentage and specialty rental income. tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. certain activities we do not base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold as circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. while we may seek the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by our board of trustees without the vote of shareholders. employees as of december 31, 2011, we have approximately 4,823 employees, of which 322 are corporate staff. the new york office properties segment has 137 employees and an additional 2,816 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york office and washington, dc office properties. the washington, dc office properties, retail properties and merchandise mart properties segments have 457, 168 and 409 employees, respectively, and the hotel pennsylvania has 514 employees. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities, including toys or alexander's, of which we own 32.7% and 32.4%, respectively. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k, and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial information, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. copies of our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon request. 10 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see forward-looking statements contained herein on page 3. real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to various factors. the value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; the development and/or redevelopment of our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to obtain adequate insurance; changes in zoning laws and taxation; government regulation; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; natural disasters; general competitive factors; and climate changes. the rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy, which over the past few years have negatively affected substantially all businesses, including ours. demand for office and retail space may continue to decline nationwide as it did in 2008 and 2009, due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities. real estate is a competitive business. our business segments new york office properties, washington, dc office properties, retail properties, merchandise mart properties and toys operate in a highly competitive environment. we have a large concentration of properties in the new york city metropolitan area and in the washington, dc / northern virginia area. we compete with a large number of property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments than we are. principal factors of competition include rents charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national, regional and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population trends. 11 we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. during periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. in the case of our shopping centers, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available for the payment of indebtedness or for distribution to shareholders. we may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. the environmental assessments did not, as of this date, reveal any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. although neither inflation nor deflation has materially impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on our mortgages and interest rates and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants' sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable. conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income. in addition, we own residential properties which are leased to tenants with one-year lease terms. because these are short-term leases, declines in market rents will impact our residential properties faster than if the leases were for longer terms. 12 some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, including coverage for terrorist acts, with sub-limits for certain perils such as floods. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $180,000,000 per occurrence, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property, up to a $180,000,000 annual aggregate. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to all risk property and rental value insurance and a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for coverage for acts of terrorism, including nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) acts, as defined by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. coverage for nbcr losses is up to $2.0 billion per occurrence, for which ppic is responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 and 15% of the balance of a covered loss and the federal government is responsible for the remaining 85% of a covered loss. we are ultimately responsible for any loss borne by ppic. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes, exchangeable senior debentures, convertible senior debentures and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio. because we operate a hotel, we face the risks associated with the hospitality industry. we own and operate the hotel pennsylvania in new york city. the following factors, among others, are common to the hotel industry and may reduce the revenues generated by the hotel, which would reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders: our hotel competes for guests with other hotels, a number of which have greater marketing and financial resources; if there is an increase in operating costs resulting from inflation and other factors, we may not be able to offset such increase by increasing room rates; our hotel is subject to the fluctuating and seasonal demands of business travelers and tourism; our hotel is subject to general and local economic and social conditions that may affect demand for travel in general, including war and terrorism; and physical condition, which may require substantial additional capital. because of the ownership structure of the hotel pennsylvania, we face potential adverse effects from changes to the applicable tax laws. under the internal revenue code, reits like us are not allowed to operate hotels directly or indirectly. accordingly, we lease the hotel pennsylvania to our taxable reit subsidiary ( trs ). while the trs structure allows the economic benefits of ownership to flow to us, the trs is subject to tax on its income from the operations of the hotel at the federal and state level. in addition, the trs is subject to detailed tax regulations that affect how it may be capitalized and operated. if the tax laws applicable to a trs are modified, we may be forced to modify the structure for owning the hotel, and such changes may adversely affect the cash flows from the hotel. in addition, the internal revenue service, the united states treasury department and congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, and we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. any such actions may prospectively or retroactively modify the tax treatment of the trs and, therefore, may adversely affect our after-tax returns from the hotel. 13 compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. the americans with disabilities act ( ada ) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ada, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the ada, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. we face risks associated with our tenants being designated prohibited persons by the office of foreign assets control. pursuant to executive order 13224 and other laws, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury ( ofac ) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned ( prohibited persons ) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the united states. our leases, loans and other agreements may require us to comply with ofac requirements. if a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the ofac list we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement. any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. the occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. a cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources. more specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. as our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. our three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants, and private data exposure. we have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident. 14 our investments are concentrated in the new york city metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area. circumstances affecting these areas generally could adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our properties are located in the new york city / new jersey metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas. in 2011, approximately 74% of our ebitda, excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the new york city / new jersey metropolitan areas and the washington, dc / northern virginia area. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the united states or abroad. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the short or long term. declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. the factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; space needs of, and budgetary constraints affecting, the united states government, including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and repositioning under the defense base closure and realignment act of 2005, as amended; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; infrastructure quality; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. it is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability. terrorist attacks, such as those of september 11, 2001 in new york city and the washington, dc area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the new york, washington, dc, chicago, boston and san francisco metropolitan areas. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. we may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we have grown rapidly since 2001 through acquisitions. we may not be able to maintain this rapid growth and our failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price. we have experienced rapid growth since 2001, increasing our total assets from approximately $6.8 billion at december 31, 2001 to approximately $20.4 billion at december 31, 2011. we may not be able to maintain a similar rate of growth in the future or manage growth effectively. our failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as the amount of cash available for distributions to shareholders. 15 we may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies and this may create risks. we may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategy. we may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. in addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs. when we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly-developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover costs of acquisition or development and operations. difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management's attention. acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. we may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated. furthermore, acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. development of our existing properties presents similar risks. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our common shares. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our common shares and convertible and exchangeable securities. it may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. as part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance. from time to time we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries that differ from our current operations, with different risks than investing in real estate. from time to time we make debt or equity investments in other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. these investments include but are not limited to, alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ), toys r us ( toys ), lexington realty trust ( lexington ), j.c. penney company, inc. ( j.c. penney ), lnr property corporation ( lnr ) and other equity and mezzanine investments. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of business including, without limitation, operating or managing toy stores and department stores. consequently, investments in these businesses, among other risks, subjects us to the operating and financial risks of industries other than real estate and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. from time to time we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures, present additional risks such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. we are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment. a substantial portion of our properties are in the retail shopping center real estate market and we have a significant investment in retailers such as toys and j.c. penney. this means that we are subject to factors that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the retailers in which we hold an investment and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, and in turn, adversely affect us. 16 our investment in toys subjects us to risks that are different from our other lines of business and may result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings. because toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. the business of toys is highly seasonal. historically, toys fourth quarter net income accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. in addition, our fiscal year ends on december 31 whereas, as is common for retailers, toys' fiscal year ends on the saturday nearest to january 31. therefore, we record our pro rata share of toys' net earnings on a one-quarter lag basis. for example, our financial results for the year ended december 31, 2011 include toys' financial results for its first, second and third quarters ended october 29, 2011, as well as toys' fourth quarter results of 2010. because of the seasonality of toys, our reported quarterly net income shows increased volatility. we may also, in the future and from time to time, invest in other businesses that may report financial results that are more volatile than our historical financial results. we depend upon our anchor tenants to attract shoppers. we own several regional malls and other shopping centers that are typically anchored by well-known department stores and other tenants who generate shopping traffic at the mall or shopping center. the value of our properties would be adversely affected if tenants or anchors failed to meet their contractual obligations, sought concessions in order to continue operations or ceased their operations, including as a result of bankruptcy. if the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to economic conditions, closing of anchors or for other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. in the event of a default by a tenant or anchor, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. we evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period. if we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired. depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. this loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. we invest in subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets. these investments involve greater risk of loss than investments in senior mortgage loans. we invest, and may in the future invest, in subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets. these investments, which are subordinate to the mortgage loans secured by the real property, are generally secured by pledges of the equity interests of the entities owning the underlying real estate. these investments involve a greater risk of loss than investments in senior mortgage loans which are secured by real property. if a borrower defaults on debt to us or on debt senior to us, or declares bankruptcy, we may not be able to recover some or all of our investment. in addition, there may be significant delays and costs associated with the process of foreclosing on collateral securing or supporting these investments. the value of the assets securing or supporting our investments could deteriorate over time due to factors beyond our control, including acts or omissions by owners, changes in business, economic or market conditions, or foreclosure. such deteriorations in value may result in the recognition of impairment losses and/or valuation allowances on our statements of income. as of december 31, 2011, our investments in mezzanine debt securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $133,948,000. we evaluate the collectibility of both interest and principal of each of our loans whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such amounts may not be recoverable. a loan is impaired when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. when a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, or as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. there can be no assurance that our estimates of collectible amounts will not change over time or that they will be representative of the amounts we will actually collect, including amounts we would collect if we chose to sell these investments before their maturity. if we collect less than our estimates, we will record impairment losses which could be material. 17 we invest in marketable equity securities of companies that have significant real estate assets. the value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. we invest in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded real estate companies or companies that have significant real estate assets, such as j.c. penney. as of december 31, 2011, our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $741,321,000. significant declines in the value of these investments due to operating performance or economic or market conditions may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material. our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. vornado realty trust ( vornado ) depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred security holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to vornado. substantially all of vornado's assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado's ability to pay dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado. furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of class a units of the operating partnership, including vornado. thus, vornado's ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its class a units, including vornado. as of december 31, 2011, there were six series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado with a total liquidation value of $280,955,000. in addition, vornado's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. 18 we have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $14.5 billion of total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of partially owned entities, and excluding $33.3 billion for our pro rata share of lnr's liabilities related to its consolidated cmbs and cdo trusts, which are non-recourse to lnr and its equity holders, including us. our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value was approximately 47%. when we say enterprise value in the preceding sentence, we mean market equity value of our common and preferred shares plus total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of partially owned entities, and excluding lnr's liabilities related to its consolidated cmbs and cdo trusts. in the future, we may incur additional debt to finance acquisitions or property developments and thus increase our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value. if our level of indebtedness increases, there may be an increased risk of a credit rating downgrade or a default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, in a rising interest rate environment, the cost of existing variable rate debt and any new debt or other market rate security or instrument may increase. furthermore, we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and other loans that we may obtain in the future contain, or may contain, customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. we rely on debt financing, including borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, issuances of unsecured debt securities and debt secured by individual properties, to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing from these or other sources, or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. if we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lenders can declare a default and, if the debt is secured, can take possession of the property securing the defaulted loan. vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may fail to remain qualified in this way. qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. our qualification as a reit also depends on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a reit and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to shareholders. in addition, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. although we currently intend to operate in a manner designed to allow us to qualify as a reit, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to revoke the reit election or fail to qualify as a reit. 19 we face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. from time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. the shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees of vornado, and michael d. fascitelli, the president and chief executive officer of vornado. while we believe that we could find replacements for these and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. vornado's charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. our amended and restated declaration of trust sets limits on the ownership of our shares. generally, for vornado to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado's taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado's amended and restated declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by vornado's board of trustees. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. we refer to vornado's amended and restated declaration of trust, as amended, as the declaration of trust. vornado has a classified board of trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's board of trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of vornado, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. we may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado may issue. the board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders, although the board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado's declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. 20 the maryland general corporation law contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. under the maryland general corporation law, as amended, which we refer to as the mgcl, as applicable to reits, certain business combinations, including certain mergers, consolidations, share exchanges and asset transfers and certain issuances and reclassifications of equity securities, between a maryland reit and any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust's shares or an affiliate or an associate, as defined in the mgcl, of the trust who, at any time within the two-year period before the date in question, was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust, which we refer to as an interested shareholder, or an affiliate of the interested shareholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. after that five-year period, any business combination of these kinds must be recommended by the board of trustees of the trust and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (a) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust and (b) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust other than shares held by the interested shareholder with whom, or with whose affiliate, the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder. these supermajority voting requirements do not apply if the trust's common shareholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the mgcl, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common shares. the provisions of the mgcl do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the board of trustees of the applicable trust before the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and a person is not an interested shareholder if the board of trustees approved in advance the transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. in approving a transaction, the board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. vornado's board has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between vornado and any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates. as a result, any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado that may not be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our board of trustees. accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies. our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2011, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners owned an aggregate of approximately 6.3% of the common shares of vornado and 27.2% of the common stock of alexander's, which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado and on the outcome of any matters submitted to vornado's shareholders for approval. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity or debt holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander's currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. 21 we currently manage and lease the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent. the management agreement has a one-year term and is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on 60 days' notice at the end of the term. because of the relationship among vornado, interstate properties and messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight, as described above, the terms of the management agreement and any future agreements between us and interstate properties may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. there may be conflicts of interest between alexander's and us. as of december 31, 2011, we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's. alexander's is a reit engaged in leasing, managing, developing and redeveloping properties, focusing primarily on the locations where its department stores operated before they ceased operations in 1992. alexander's has seven properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 2.0% that they indirectly own through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 27.2% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's as of december 31, 2011. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's and general partners of interstate properties. michael d. fascitelli is the president and chief executive officer of vornado and the president of alexander's and dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander's. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president and chief financial officer, holds the same position with alexander's. alexander's common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol alx. we manage, develop and lease alexander's properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from alexander's. these agreements have a one-year term expiring in march of each year and are all automatically renewable. because vornado and alexander's share common senior management and because certain of the trustees of vornado constitute a majority of the directors of alexander's, the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements between us and alexander's may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. for a description of interstate properties' ownership of vornado and alexander's, see steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us above. 22 the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our common shares. among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are: our financial condition and performance; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; our dividend policy; the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other real estate investment trusts; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional investor interest in us; the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for real estate investment trusts and other real estate related companies; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this annual report on the form 10-k. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders. vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares. the interests of our current shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. as of december 31, 2011, we had authorized but unissued, 64,919,980 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 67,813,291 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 28,304,971 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 5,800,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding shares. increased market interest rates may hurt the value of our common and preferred shares. we believe that investors consider the distribution rate on reit shares, expressed as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates as an important factor in deciding whether to buy or sell the shares. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher distribution rate. higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common and preferred shares to decline. 23risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 3 part i item 1. business vornado realty trust ( vornado ) is a fully integrated real estate investment trust ( reit ) and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, vornado realty l.p., a delaware limited partnership (the operating partnership ). accordingly, vornado's cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the operating partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors. vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 94.0% of the common limited partnership interest in the operating partnership at december 31, 2012. all references to we, us, our, the company and vornado refer to vornado realty trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the operating partnership. as of december 31, 2012, we own all or portions of: new york: 19.7 million square feet of manhattan office space in 31 properties and four residential properties containing 1,655 units; 2.2 million square feet of manhattan street retail space in 49 properties; the 1,700 room hotel pennsylvania located on seventh avenue at 33 rd street in the heart of the penn plaza district; a 32.4% interest in alexander's, inc. (nyse: alx), which owns six properties in the greater new york metropolitan area, including 731 lexington avenue, the 1.3 million square foot bloomberg, l.p. headquarters building; washington, dc: 73 properties aggregating 19.1 million square feet, including 59 office properties aggregating 16.1 million square feet and seven residential properties containing 2,414 units; retail properties: 114 strip shopping centers and single tenant retail assets aggregating 15.6 million square feet, primarily in the northeast states and california; six regional malls aggregating 5.2 million square feet, located in the northeast / mid-atlantic states and puerto rico; other real estate and related investments: the 3.5 million square foot merchandise mart in chicago; a 70% controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building office complex in san francisco's financial district aggregating 1.8 million square feet, known as the bank of america center; a 25.0% interest in vornado capital partners, our $800 million real estate fund. we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund; a 32.6% interest in toys r us, inc.; a 10.7% interest in j.c. penney company, inc. (nyse: jcp); and other real estate and related investments and mortgage and mezzanine loans on real estate. 4 objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and executing our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit; investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city and washington, dc, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation; acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents; investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the new york city metropolitan area; developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value; and investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component. we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the future. vornado capital partners real estate fund (the fund ) in february 2011, the fund's subscription period closed with an aggregate of $800,000,000 of capital commitments, of which we committed $200,000,000. we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund, which has an eight-year term and a three-year investment period. during the investment period, which concludes in july 2013, the fund is our exclusive investment vehicle for all investments that fit within its investment parameters, including debt, equity and other interests in real estate, and excluding (i) investments in vacant land and ground-up development; (ii) investments acquired by merger or primarily for our securities or properties; (iii) properties which can be combined with or relate to our existing properties; (iv) securities of commercial mortgage loan servicers and investments derived from any such investments; (v) non-controlling interests in equity and debt securities; and (vi) investments located outside of north america. the fund's investments are reported on its balance sheet at fair value, with changes in value each period recognized in earnings. we consolidate the accounts of the fund into our consolidated financial statements, retaining the fair value basis of accounting. during 2012, the fund made four investments (described below) aggregating $203,700,000. as of december 31, 2012, the fund has nine investments with an aggregate fair value of $600,786,000, or $67,642,000 in excess of cost, and has remaining unfunded commitments of $217,676,000, of which our share was $54,419,000. 800 corporate pointe on november 30, 2012, the fund acquired 800 corporate pointe, a 243,000 square foot office building and the accompanying six-level parking structure (1,964 spaces) located in culver city, los angeles, california, for $95,700,000 in cash. 501 broadway on august 20, 2012, the fund acquired 501 broadway, a 9,000 square foot retail property in new york for $31,000,000. the purchase price consisted of $11,000,000 in cash and a $20,000,000 mortgage loan. the three-year loan bears interest at libor plus 2.75%, with a floor of 3.50%, and has two one-year extension options. 1100 lincoln road on july 2, 2012, the fund acquired 1100 lincoln road, a 167,000 square foot retail property, the western anchor of the lincoln road shopping district in miami beach, florida, for $132,000,000. the purchase price consisted of $66,000,000 in cash and a $66,000,000 mortgage loan. the three-year loan bears interest at libor plus 2.75% and has two one-year extension options. 520 broadway on april 26, 2012, the fund acquired 520 broadway, a 112,000 square foot office building in santa monica, california for $61,000,000 in cash and subsequently placed a $30,000,000 mortgage loan on the property. the three-year loan bears interest at libor plus 2.25% and has two one-year extension options. 5 acquisitions and investments independence plaza in 2011, we acquired a 51% interest in the subordinated debt of independence plaza, a three-building 1,328 unit residential complex in the tribeca submarket of manhattan which has 54,500 square feet of retail space and 550 parking spaces, for $45,000,000 and a warrant to purchase 25% of the equity for $1,000,000. on december 21, 2012, we acquired a 58.75% interest in the property as follows: (i) buying one of the equity partners' 33.75% interest for $160,000,000, (ii) exercising our warrant for 25% of the equity and (iii) contributing the appreciated value of our interest in the subordinated debt as preferred equity. in connection therewith, we recognized income of $105,366,000, comprised of $60,396,000 from the accelerated amortization of the discount on the subordinated debt immediately preceding the conversion to preferred equity, and a $44,970,000 purchase price fair value adjustment upon exercising the warrant. the current transaction values the property at $844,800,000. the property is currently encumbered by a $334,225,000 mortgage. we expect to refinance the $334,225,000 mortgage in 2013, substantially decreasing our cash investment. we manage the retail space at the property and stellar management, our partner, manages the residential space. 666 fifth avenue - retail on december 6, 2012, we acquired a retail condominium located at 666 fifth avenue at 53rd street for $707,000,000 in cash. the property has 126 feet of frontage on fifth avenue and contains 114,000 square feet, 39,000 square feet in fee and 75,000 square feet by long-term lease from the 666 fifth avenue office condominium, which is 49.5% owned by us. marriott marquis times square - retail and signage on july 30, 2012, we entered into a lease with host hotels &amp; resorts, inc. (nyse: hst) ( host ), under which we will redevelop the retail and signage components of the marriott marquis times square hotel. the marriott marquis with over 1,900 rooms is one of the largest hotels in manhattan. it is located in the heart of the bow-tie of times square and spans the entire block front from 45th street to 46th street on broadway. the marriott marquis is directly across from our 1540 broadway iconic retail property leased to forever 21 and disney flagship stores. we plan to spend over $140,000,000 to redevelop and substantially expand the existing retail space, including converting the below grade parking garage into retail, and creating six-story, 300 foot wide block front, dynamic led signs. during the term of the lease we will pay fixed rent equal to the sum of $12,500,000, plus a portion of the property's net cash flow after we receive a 5.2% preferred return on our invested capital. the lease contains put/call options which, if exercised, would lead to our ownership. host can exercise the put option during defined periods following the conversion of the project to a condominium. we can exercise our call option under the same terms, at any time after the fifteenth year of the lease term. 6 dispositions merchandise mart on december 31, 2012, we completed the sale of the boston design center, a 554,000 square foot showroom building in boston, massachusetts, for $72,400,000 in cash, which resulted in a net gain of $5,252,000. on july 26, 2012, we completed the sale of the washington design center, a 393,000 square foot showroom building in washington, dc, and the canadian trade shows, for an aggregate of $103,000,000 in cash. the sale of the canadian trade shows resulted in an after-tax net gain of $19,657,000. on june 22, 2012, we completed the sale of l.a. mart, a 784,000 square foot showroom building in los angeles, california for $53,000,000, of which $18,000,000 was cash and $35,000,000 was nine-month seller financing at 6.0%, which was paid on december 28, 2012. on january 6, 2012, we completed the sale of 350 west mart center, a 1.2 million square foot office building in chicago, illinois, for $228,000,000 in cash, which resulted in a net gain of $54,911,000. washington, dc on november 7, 2012, we completed the sale of three office buildings ( reston executive ) located in suburban fairfax county, virginia, containing 494,000 square feet for $126,250,000, which resulted in a net gain of $36,746,000. on july 26, 2012, we completed the sale of 409 third street s.w., a 409,000 square foot office building in washington, dc, for $200,000,000 in cash, which resulted in a net gain of $126,621,000. this building is contiguous to the washington design center and was sold to the same purchaser. retail properties on february 13, 2013, we entered into an agreement to sell the plant, a power strip shopping center in san jose, california, for $203,000,000. the sale will result in net proceeds of approximately $93,000,000 after repaying the existing loan and closing costs, and a financial statement gain of approximately $33,000,000. the sale, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to be completed by the second quarter of 2013. on january 24, 2013, we completed the sale of the green acres mall located in valley stream, new york, for $500,000,000, which resulted in net proceeds of $185,000,000, after repaying the existing loan and closing costs. the financial statement gain of $205,000,000 will be recognized in the first quarter of 2013 and the tax gain of $304,000,000 has been deferred as part of a like-kind exchange. in 2012, we sold 12 non-core retail properties in separate transactions, for an aggregate of $157,000,000 in cash, which resulted in a net gain aggregating $22,266,000. in addition, we have entered into an agreement to sell a building on market street, philadelphia, which is part of the gallery at market east for $60,000,000, which will result in a net gain of approximately $35,000,000. the sale, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2013. other on january 24, 2013, lnr property llc ( lnr ) entered into a definitive agreement to be sold. we own 26.2% of lnr and expect to receive net proceeds of approximately $241,000,000. the sale, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2013. 7 financing activities secured debt on november 16, 2012, we completed a $120,000,000 refinancing of 4 union square south, a 206,000 square foot manhattan retail property. the seven-year loan bears interest at libor plus 2.15% (2.36% at december 31, 2012) and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the third year. we retained net proceeds of approximately $42,000,000, after repaying the existing loan and closing costs. on november 8, 2012, we completed a $950,000,000 refinancing of 1290 avenue of the americas (70% owned), a 2.1 million square foot manhattan office building. the 10-year fixed rate interest-only loan bears interest at 3.34%. the partnership retained net proceeds of approximately $522,000,000, after repaying the existing loan and closing costs. on august 17, 2012, we completed a $98,000,000 refinancing of 435 seventh avenue, a 43,000 square foot retail property in manhattan. the seven-year loan bears interest at libor plus 2.25% (2.46% at december 31, 2012). we retained net proceeds of approximately $44,000,000, after repaying the existing loan and closing costs. on july 26, 2012, we completed a $150,000,000 refinancing of 2101 l street, a 380,000 square foot office building located in washington, dc. the 12-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 3.97% and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the third year. on march 5, 2012, we completed a $325,000,000 refinancing of 100 west 33 rd street, a 1.1 million square foot property located on the entire sixth avenue block front between 32 nd and 33 rd streets in manhattan. the building contains the 257,000 square foot manhattan mall and 848,000 square feet of office space. the three-year loan bears interest at libor plus 2.50% (2.71% at december 31, 2012) and has two one-year extension options. we retained net proceeds of approximately $87,000,000, after repaying the existing loan and closing costs. on january 9, 2012, we completed a $300,000,000 refinancing of 350 park avenue, a 559,000 square foot manhattan office building. the five-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 3.75% and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the third year. the proceeds of the new loan and $132,000,000 of existing cash were used to repay the existing loan and closing costs. senior unsecured debt in april 2012, we redeemed all of the outstanding exchangeable and convertible senior debentures at par, for an aggregate of $510,215,000 in cash. 8 financing activities - continued preferred securities in july 2012 and january 2013, we sold an aggregate of $600,000,000 of cumulative redeemable preferred securities with a weighted average cost of 5.55%. the net proceeds aggregating $581,824,000 were used primarily to redeem outstanding cumulative redeemable preferred securities with an aggregate face amount of $517,500,000 and a weighted average cost of 6.82%. the details of these transactions are described below. on february 19, 2013, we redeemed all of the outstanding 6.75% series f cumulative redeemable preferred shares and 6.75% series h cumulative redeemable preferred shares at par, for an aggregate of $262,500,000 in cash, plus accrued and unpaid dividends through the date of redemption. on january 25, 2013, we sold 12,000,000 5.40% series l cumulative redeemable preferred shares at a price of $25.00 per share in an underwritten public offering pursuant to an effective registration statement. we retained aggregate net proceeds of $290,853,000, after underwriters' discounts and issuance costs and contributed the net proceeds to the operating partnership in exchange for 12,000,000 series l preferred units (with economic terms that mirror those of the series l preferred shares). dividends on the series l preferred shares are cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears. the series l preferred shares are not convertible into, or exchangeable for, any of our properties or securities. on or after five years from the date of issuance (or sooner under limited circumstances), we may redeem the series l preferred shares at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends through the date of redemption. the series l preferred shares have no maturity date and will remain outstanding indefinitely unless redeemed by us. on august 16, 2012, we redeemed all of the outstanding 7.0% series e cumulative redeemable preferred shares at par, for an aggregate of $75,000,000 in cash, plus accrued and unpaid dividends through the date of redemption. on july 19, 2012, we redeemed all of the outstanding 7.0% series d-10 and 6.75% series d-14 cumulative redeemable preferred units with an aggregate face amount of $180,000,000 for $168,300,000 in cash, plus accrued and unpaid distributions through the date of redemption. on july 11, 2012, we sold 12,000,000 5.70% series k cumulative redeemable preferred shares at a price of $25.00 per share in an underwritten public offering pursuant to an effective registration statement. we retained aggregate net proceeds of $290,971,000, after underwriters' discounts and issuance costs and contributed the net proceeds to the operating partnership in exchange for 12,000,000 series k preferred units (with economic terms that mirror those of the series k preferred shares). dividends on the series k preferred shares are cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears. the series k preferred shares are not convertible into, or exchangeable for, any of our properties or securities. on or after five years from the date of issuance (or sooner under limited circumstances), we may redeem the series k preferred shares at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends through the date of redemption. the series k preferred shares have no maturity date and will remain outstanding indefinitely unless redeemed by us. 9 development and redevelopment projects in 2012, we commenced the re-tenanting and repositioning of 280 park avenue (50% owned), and the renovation of the 1.4 million square foot springfield mall, both of which are expected to be substantially completed in 2014. we budgeted approximately $285,000,000 for these projects, of which $31,000,000 was expended in 2012 and $132,000,000 is expected to be expended in 2013 and the balance is expected to be expended in 2014. during 2012, we completed the demolition of the existing residential building down to the second-level, at 220 central park south. in addition, we continued lobby renovations at several of our office buildings in new york and washington, as well as the re-tenanting and repositioning of a number of our strip shopping centers. we are also evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities at certain of our properties in manhattan, including the hotel pennsylvania and in washington, including 1900 crystal drive, rosslyn and pentagon city. in 2010, two of our wholly owned subsidiaries entered into agreements with cuyahoga county, ohio (the county ) to develop and operate the cleveland medical mart and convention center (the facility ), a 1,000,000 square foot showroom, trade show and conference center in cleveland's central business district. the county is funding the development of the facility, using the proceeds it received from the issuance of general obligation bonds and other sources, up to the development budget of $418,000,000 and maintains effective control of the property. during the 17-year development and operating period, our subsidiaries will receive net settled payments of approximately $10,000,000 per year, which are net of a $36,000,000 annual obligation to the county. our subsidiaries' obligation has been pledged by the county to the bondholders, but is payable by our subsidiaries only to the extent that they first receive at least an equal payment from the county. construction of the facility is expected to be completed in 2013. as of december 31, 2012, $379,658,000 of the $418,000,000 development budget was expended. there can be no assurance that any of our development or redevelopment projects will commence, or if commenced, be completed on schedule or within budget. stop &amp; shop settlement on february 6, 2013, we received $124,000,000 pursuant to a settlement agreement with stop &amp; shop for our claim under a 1992 agreement which provided for additional annual rent of $6,000,000 for a period potentially through 2031. the settlement terminates our right to receive this rent under the 1992 agreement and ends litigation between the parties, which started ten years ago. in prior years, we recognized $47,900,000 of rental income under the agreement. this settlement will result in $59,000,000 of net income that will be recognized in the first quarter of 2013. 10 segment data we operate in the following business segments: new york, washington, dc, retail properties, merchandise mart and toys r us ( toys ). financial information related to these business segments for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is set forth in note 26 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. the toys segment has 651 locations internationally. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the business of toys is highly seasonal. historically, toys' fourth quarter net income, which we record on a one-quarter lag basis in our first quarter, accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. the new york and washington, dc segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. the retail properties segment revenue in the fourth quarter is typically higher due to the recognition of percentage and specialty rental income. tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. certain activities we do not base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold as circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. while we may seek the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by our board of trustees without the vote of shareholders. employees as of december 31, 2012, we have approximately 4,428 employees, of which 327 are corporate staff. the new york segment has 3,308 employees, including 2,641 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york and washington, dc properties and 516 employees at the hotel pennsylvania. the washington, dc, retail properties and merchandise mart segments have 456, 110 and 227 employees, respectively. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities, including toys or alexander's, of which we own 32.6% and 32.4%, respectively. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k, and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial information, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. copies of our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon request. 11 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see forward-looking statements contained herein on page 3. real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to various factors. the value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; the development and/or redevelopment of our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to obtain adequate insurance; changes in zoning laws and taxation; government regulation; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attacks against, the united states; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; natural disasters; general competitive factors; and climate changes. the rents or sales proceeds we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy, which over the past few years have negatively affected substantially all businesses, including ours. demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide as it did in 2008 and 2009, due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets. the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities. 12 real estate is a competitive business. our business segments new york, washington, dc, retail properties, merchandise mart and toys operate in a highly competitive environment. we have a large concentration of properties in the new york city metropolitan area and in the washington, dc / northern virginia area. we compete with a large number of property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments than we are. principal factors of competition include rents charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national, regional and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population trends. we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. during periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. in the case of our shopping centers, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available for the payment of indebtedness or for distribution to shareholders. we may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. our predecessor companies may be subject to similar liabilities for activities of those companies in the past. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. the environmental assessments did not, as of this date, reveal any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. 13 inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. although neither inflation nor deflation has materially impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on our mortgages and interest rates and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants' sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable. conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income. in addition, we own residential properties which are leased to tenants with one-year lease terms. because these are short-term leases, declines in market rents will impact our residential properties faster than if the leases were for longer terms. some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, including coverage for terrorist acts, with sub-limits for certain perils such as floods. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $180,000,000 per occurrence, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property, up to a $180,000,000 annual aggregate. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to all risk property and rental value insurance and a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for coverage for acts of terrorism, including nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) acts, as defined by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. coverage for nbcr losses is up to $2.0 billion per occurrence, for which ppic is responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 and 15% of the balance of a covered loss and the federal government is responsible for the remaining 85% of a covered loss. we are ultimately responsible for any loss borne by ppic. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio. because we operate a hotel, we face the risks associated with the hospitality industry. we own and operate the hotel pennsylvania in new york city. the following factors, among others, are common to the hotel industry and may reduce the revenues generated by the hotel, which would reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders: our hotel competes for guests with other hotels, a number of which have greater marketing and financial resources; if there is an increase in operating costs resulting from inflation and other factors, we may not be able to offset such increase by increasing room rates; our hotel is subject to the fluctuating and seasonal demands of business travelers and tourism; our hotel is subject to general and local economic and social conditions that may affect demand for travel in general, including war and terrorism; and physical condition, which may require substantial additional capital. because of the ownership structure of the hotel pennsylvania, we face potential adverse effects from changes to the applicable tax laws. under the internal revenue code, reits like us are not allowed to operate hotels directly or indirectly. accordingly, we lease the hotel pennsylvania to our taxable reit subsidiary ( trs ). while the trs structure allows the economic benefits of ownership to flow to us, the trs is subject to tax on its income from the operations of the hotel at the federal and state level. in addition, the trs is subject to detailed tax regulations that affect how it may be capitalized and operated. if the tax laws applicable to a trs are modified, we may be forced to modify the structure for owning the hotel, and such changes may adversely affect the cash flows from the hotel. in addition, the internal revenue service, the united states treasury department and congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, and we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. any such actions may prospectively or retroactively modify the tax treatment of the trs and, therefore, may adversely affect our after-tax returns from the hotel. 14 compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. the americans with disabilities act ( ada ) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ada, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the ada, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. we face risks associated with our tenants being designated prohibited persons by the office of foreign assets control. pursuant to executive order 13224 and other laws, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury ( ofac ) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned ( prohibited persons ) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the united states. our leases, loans and other agreements may require us to comply with ofac requirements. if a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the ofac list we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement. any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. the occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. a cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources. more specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. as our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. our three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants, and private data exposure. we have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident. 15 our investments are concentrated in the new york city metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area. circumstances affecting these areas generally could adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our properties are located in the new york city / new jersey metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas. in 2012, approximately 74% of our ebitda, excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the new york city metropolitan areas and the washington, dc / northern virginia area. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the united states or abroad. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the short or long term. declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. in addition to the factors affecting the national economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; space needs of, and budgetary constraints affecting, the united states government, including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and repositioning under the defense base closure and realignment act of 2005, as amended; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; infrastructure quality; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. it is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability. terrorist attacks, such as those of september 11, 2001 in new york city and the washington, dc area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the new york, washington, dc and san francisco metropolitan areas. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. natural disasters could have a concentrated impact on the areas where we operate and could adversely impact our results. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the new york, washington, dc and san francisco metropolitan areas. as much of our investments are concentrated along the eastern seaboard, natural disasters, such as those resulting from superstorm sandy, could impact several of our properties. additionally, natural disasters, including earthquakes, could impact several of our properties in other areas in which we operate. potentially adverse consequences of global warming could similarly have an impact on our properties. as a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or repair costs that may or may not be fully covered by insurance and to the risk of business interruption. the incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results. 16 we may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we have grown substantially since 2002 through acquisitions. we may not be able to maintain this growth and our failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price. we have grown substantially since 2002, increasing our total assets from approximately $9.0 billion at december 31, 2002 to approximately $22.0 billion at december 31, 2012. we may not be able to maintain a similar rate of growth in the future or manage growth effectively. our failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as the amount of cash available for distributions to shareholders. we may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies and this may create risks. we may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategy. we may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. in addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs. when we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing or selling newly-developed or acquired properties at rents or sales prices sufficient to cover costs of acquisition or development and operations. difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management's attention. acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. we may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated. furthermore, acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. development of our existing properties presents similar risks. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our common shares. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our common shares. it may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar returns. as part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold. from time to time we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries that differ from our current operations, with different risks than investing in real estate. from time to time we make debt or equity investments in other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. these investments include but are not limited to, alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ), toys r us ( toys ), lexington realty trust ( lexington ), j.c. penney company, inc. ( j.c. penney ), and other equity and mezzanine investments. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of business including, without limitation, operating or managing toy stores and department stores. consequently, investments in these businesses, among other risks, subjects us to the operating and financial risks of industries other than real estate and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. from time to time we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures, present additional risks such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. 17 we are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment. a substantial portion of our properties are in the retail shopping center real estate market and we have a significant investment in retailers such as toys and j.c. penney. this means that we are subject to factors that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the retailers in which we hold an investment and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, and in turn, adversely affect us. our investment in toys subjects us to risks that are different from our other lines of business and may result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings. because toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. the business of toys is highly seasonal. historically, toys fourth quarter net income accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. in addition, our fiscal year ends on december 31 whereas, as is common for retailers, toys' fiscal year ends on the saturday nearest to january 31. therefore, we record our pro rata share of toys' net earnings on a one-quarter lag basis. for example, our financial results for the year ended december 31, 2012 include toys' financial results for its first, second and third quarters ended october 29, 2012, as well as toys' fourth quarter results of 2011. because of the seasonality of toys, our reported quarterly net income shows increased volatility. we may also, in the future and from time to time, invest in other businesses that may report financial results that are more volatile than our historical financial results. we depend upon our anchor tenants to attract shoppers. we own several regional malls and other shopping centers that are typically anchored by well-known department stores and other tenants who generate shopping traffic at the mall or shopping center. the value of our properties would be adversely affected if tenants or anchors failed to meet their contractual obligations, sought concessions in order to continue operations or ceased their operations, including as a result of bankruptcy. if the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to economic conditions, closing of anchors or for other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. in the event of a default by a tenant or anchor, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. we evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period. if we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired. depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. this loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. we invest in mortgage loans and subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets. we invest, and may in the future invest, in mortgage loans and subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets. these investments are either secured by the real property or by pledges of the equity interests of the entities owning the underlying real estate. if a borrower defaults on debt to us or on debt senior to us, or declares bankruptcy, we may not be able to recover some or all of our investment. in addition, there may be significant delays and costs associated with the process of foreclosing on collateral securing or supporting these investments. the value of the assets securing or supporting our investments could deteriorate over time due to factors beyond our control, including acts or omissions by owners, changes in business, economic or market conditions, or foreclosure. such deteriorations in value may result in the recognition of impairment losses and/or valuation allowances on our statements of income. as of december 31, 2012, our investments in mortgage and mezzanine debt securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $225,359,000. 18 we evaluate the collectibility of both interest and principal of each of our loans whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such amounts may not be recoverable. a loan is impaired when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. when a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, or as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. there can be no assurance that our estimates of collectible amounts will not change over time or that they will be representative of the amounts we will actually collect, including amounts we would collect if we chose to sell these investments before their maturity. if we collect less than our estimates, we will record impairment losses which could be material. we invest in marketable equity securities. the value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. we invest in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded companies, such as j.c. penney. as of december 31, 2012, our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $398,188,000, at market. significant declines in the value of these investments due to, among other reasons, operating performance or economic or market conditions, may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material. our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. vornado realty trust ( vornado ) depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred security holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to vornado. substantially all of vornado's assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado's ability to pay dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado. furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of class a units of the operating partnership, including vornado. thus, vornado's ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its class a units, including vornado. as of december 31, 2012, there were four series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado with a total liquidation value of $101,095,000. in addition, vornado's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. 19 we have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately $14.7 billion of total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of partially owned entities, and excluding $25.4 billion for our pro rata share of lnr's liabilities related to its consolidated cmbs and cdo trusts, which are non-recourse to lnr and its equity holders, including us. our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value was approximately 46%. when we say enterprise value in the preceding sentence, we mean market equity value of our common and preferred securities plus total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of partially owned entities, and excluding lnr's liabilities related to its consolidated cmbs and cdo trusts. in the future, we may incur additional debt to finance acquisitions or property developments and thus increase our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value. if our level of indebtedness increases, there may be an increased risk of a credit rating downgrade or a default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, in a rising interest rate environment, the cost of existing variable rate debt and any new debt or other market rate security or instrument may increase. furthermore, we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and other loans that we may obtain in the future contain, or may contain, customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. we rely on debt financing, including borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, issuances of unsecured debt securities and debt secured by individual properties, to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing from these or other sources, or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. if we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lenders can declare a default and, if the debt is secured, can take possession of the property securing the defaulted loan. vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may fail to remain qualified in this way. qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. our qualification as a reit also depends on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a reit and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to shareholders. in addition, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. although we currently intend to operate in a manner designed to allow us to qualify as a reit, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to revoke the reit election or fail to qualify as a reit. 20 we face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. from time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. the shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees of vornado, and michael d. fascitelli, the president and chief executive officer of vornado. while we believe that we could find replacements for these and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. vornado's charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. our amended and restated declaration of trust sets limits on the ownership of our shares. generally, for vornado to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado's taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado's amended and restated declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by vornado's board of trustees. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. we refer to vornado's amended and restated declaration of trust, as amended, as the declaration of trust. vornado has a classified board of trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's board of trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of vornado, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. we may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado may issue. the board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders, although the board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado's declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. 21 the maryland general corporation law contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. under the maryland general corporation law, as amended, which we refer to as the mgcl, as applicable to reits, certain business combinations, including certain mergers, consolidations, share exchanges and asset transfers and certain issuances and reclassifications of equity securities, between a maryland reit and any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust's shares or an affiliate or an associate, as defined in the mgcl, of the trust who, at any time within the two-year period before the date in question, was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust, which we refer to as an interested shareholder, or an affiliate of the interested shareholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. after that five-year period, any business combination of these kinds must be recommended by the board of trustees of the trust and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (a) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust and (b) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust other than shares held by the interested shareholder with whom, or with whose affiliate, the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder. these supermajority voting requirements do not apply if the trust's common shareholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the mgcl, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common shares. the provisions of the mgcl do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the board of trustees of the applicable trust before the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and a person is not an interested shareholder if the board of trustees approved in advance the transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. in approving a transaction, the board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. vornado's board has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between vornado and any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates. as a result, any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado that may not be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our board of trustees. accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies. our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2012, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners owned an aggregate of approximately 6.5% of the common shares of vornado and 26.3% of the common stock of alexander's, which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado and on the outcome of any matters submitted to vornado's shareholders for approval. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity or debt holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander's currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. 22 we currently manage and lease the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent. the management agreement has a one-year term and is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on 60 days' notice at the end of the term. because of the relationship among vornado, interstate properties and messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight, as described above, the terms of the management agreement and any future agreements between us and interstate properties may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. there may be conflicts of interest between alexander's and us. as of december 31, 2012, we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's. alexander's is a reit that has six properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 2.1% that they indirectly own through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 26.3% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's as of december 31, 2012. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's and general partners of interstate properties. michael d. fascitelli is the president and chief executive officer of vornado and the president of alexander's and dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander's. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president and chief financial officer, holds the same position with alexander's. alexander's common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol alx. we manage, develop and lease alexander's properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from alexander's. these agreements have a one-year term expiring in march of each year and are all automatically renewable. because vornado and alexander's share common senior management and because certain of the trustees of vornado constitute a majority of the directors of alexander's, the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements between us and alexander's may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. for a description of interstate properties' ownership of vornado and alexander's, see steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us above. 23 the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our common shares. among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are: our financial condition and performance; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; our dividend policy; the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reits; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional investor interest in us; the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for reits and other real estate related companies; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this annual report on the form 10-k. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders. vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares. the interests of our current shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. as of december 31, 2012, we had authorized but unissued, 63,265,289 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 58,766,023 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 20,705,537 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 11,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding shares. increased interest rates may hurt the value of our common and preferred shares. we believe that investors consider the distribution rate on reit shares, expressed as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to interest rates as an important factor in deciding whether to buy or sell the shares. if interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher distribution rate. higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher interest rates could cause the market price of our common and preferred shares to decline. 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. market interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. our exposure to a change in interest rates on our consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as follows: (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 2012 2011 weighted effect of 1% weighted december 31, average change in december 31, average consolidated debt: balance interest rate base rates balance interest rate variable rate $ 3,167,181 1.93% $ 31,672 $ 1,881,948 2.35% fixed rate 8,129,009 5.18% - 8,194,659 5.55% $ 11,296,190 4.27% 31,672 $ 10,076,607 4.95% prorata share of debt of non- consolidated entities (non-recourse): variable rate excluding toys $ 264,531 2.88% 2,645 $ 284,372 2.85% variable rate toys 703,922 5.69% 7,039 706,301 4.83% fixed rate (including $1,148,407 and $1,270,029 of toys debt in 2012 and 2011) 3,030,476 (1) 7.04% - 3,208,472 6.96% $ 3,998,929 6.53% 9,684 $ 4,199,145 6.32% redeemable noncontrolling interests' share of above (2,564) total change in annual net income $ 38,792 per share-diluted $ 0.21 (1) excludes $25.4 billion for our 26.2% pro rata share of lnr's liabilities related to consolidated cmbs and cdo trusts which are non-recourse to lnr and its equity holders, including us. we may utilize various financial instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings, including hedging strategies, depending on our analysis of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies. as of december 31, 2012, we have one interest rate cap with a principal amount of $60,000,000 and a weighted average interest rate of 2.36%. this cap is based on a notional amount of $60,000,000 and caps libor at a rate of 7.00%. in addition, we have one interest rate swap on a $425,000,000 mortgage loan that swapped the rate from libor plus 2.00% (2.21% at december 31, 2012) to a fixed rate of 5.13% for the remaining six-year term of the loan. fair value of debt the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt is calculated based on current market prices and discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt. as of december 31, 2012, the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt was $11,433,000,000. derivative instruments we have, and may in the future enter into, derivative positions that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, including our economic interest in j.c. penney common shares. because these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the gains or losses resulting from their mark-to-market at the end of each reporting period are recognized as an increase or decrease in interest and other investment income (loss), net on our consolidated statements of income. in addition, we are, and may in the future be, subject to additional expense based on the notional amount of the derivative positions and a specified spread over libor. because the market value of these instruments can vary significantly between periods, we may experience significant fluctuations in the amount of our investment income or expense in any given period. in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, we recognized a loss of $75,815,000 and income of $12,984,000, respectively, from derivative instruments. 125risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 3 part i item 1. business vornado realty trust ( vornado ) is a fully integrated real estate investment trust ( reit ) and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, vornado realty l.p., a delaware limited partnership (the operating partnership ). accordingly, vornado's cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the operating partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors. vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 94.0% of the common limited partnership interest in the operating partnership at december 31, 2013. all references to we, us, our, the company and vornado refer to vornado realty trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the operating partnership. as of december 31, 2013, we own all or portions of: new york: 19.8 million square feet of manhattan office space in 31 properties and four residential properties containing 1,653 units; 2.4 million square feet of manhattan street retail space in 55 properties; the 1,700 room hotel pennsylvania located on seventh avenue at 33 rd street in the heart of the penn plaza district; a 32.4% interest in alexander's, inc. (nyse: alx), which owns six properties in the greater new york metropolitan area, including 731 lexington avenue, the 1.3 million square foot bloomberg, l.p. headquarters building; washington, dc: 16.2 million square feet of office space in 59 properties and seven residential properties containing 2,405 units; retail properties: 14.9 million square feet of retail space in 106 strip shopping centers and single tenant retail assets, primarily in the northeast states and california; 5.3 million square feet of retail space in six regional malls, located in the northeast / mid-atlantic states and puerto rico; other real estate and related investments: the 3.6 million square foot merchandise mart in chicago, whose largest tenant is motorola mobility, owned by google, which leases 608,000 square feet; a 70% controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building office complex in san francisco's financial district aggregating 1.8 million square feet, known as the bank of america center; a 25.0% interest in vornado capital partners, our real estate fund. we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund; a 32.6% interest in toys r us, inc.; and other real estate and related investments and mortgage and mezzanine loans on real estate. 4 objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and execute our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit; investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city and washington, dc, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation; acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents; investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the new york city metropolitan area; developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value; and investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component. we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the future. acquisitions since january 1, 2013, we have completed the following acquisitions: a 20.1% interest in 650 madison avenue, a 27-story, 594,000 square foot class a office and retail tower located on madison avenue between 59th and 60th street, for $260 million ($1.295 billion at 100%). a 92.5% interest in 655 fifth avenue, a 57,500 square foot retail and office property located at the northeast corner of fifth avenue and 52nd street in manhattan, for $277.5 million ($300 million at 100%). land and air rights for 137,000 zoning square feet thereby completing the assemblage for our 220 central park south development site in manhattan, for $194 million. three other manhattan street retail properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate of $65.3 million. additional details about our acquisitions are provided in the overview of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. dispositions since january 1, 2013, we have sold 20 assets and marketable securities, including j.c. penney, for an aggregate of $1.8 billion, with net proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion. below is a summary of these sales. green acres mall in valley stream, new york, for $500 million. the plant, a power strip shopping center in san jose, california, for $203 million. 866 united nations plaza, a 360,000 square foot office building in manhattan, for $200 million. a retail property in philadelphia, which is a part of the gallery at market street, for $60 million. a parcel of land known as harlem park located at 1800 park avenue (at 125 th street) in new york city, for $66 million. a retail property in tampa, florida for $45 million, of which our 75% share was $33.8 million. 12 other properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate of $82.3 million. marketable securities, principally j.c. penney, for an aggregate of $378.7 million. our 26.2% interest in lnr for net proceeds of $240.5 million. our 50% interest in the downtown crossing site in boston for net proceeds of $45 million. additional details about our dispositions are provided in the overview of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 5 financings since january 1, 2013, we have executed the following capital market transactions: a $600 million loan secured by our 220 central park south development site. the restructuring of the $678 million (face amount) skyline properties mortgage loan. extended one of our two $1.25 billion revolving credit facilities from june 2015 to june 2017, with two six-month extension options. five additional financings secured by real estate aggregating $1.707 billion at a weighted average interest rate of 3.63% and a weighted average term of 7.5 years. one of these financings was to support a recently acquired asset and the other four yielded approximately $351 million of net proceeds. issued $300 million of 5.4% series l preferred shares and redeemed all of the outstanding series f and h preferred shares and the series d-15 preferred units, which had a weighted average rate of 6.77%, for $299.4 million. additional details about our financings are provided in the overview of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. segment data we operate in the following business segments: new york, washington, dc, retail properties, and toys r us ( toys ). as a result of certain organizational changes and asset sales in 2012, the merchandise mart segment no longer meets the criteria to be a separate reportable segment; accordingly, effective january 1, 2013, the remaining assets have been reclassified to other. we have also reclassified the prior period segment financial results to conform to the current year presentation. financial information related to these business segments for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is set forth in note 26 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the business of toys is highly seasonal and substantially all of toys' net income is generated in its fourth quarter, which we record on a one-quarter lag basis in our first quarter. the new york and washington, dc segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. the retail properties segment revenue in the fourth quarter is typically higher due to the recognition of percentage and specialty rental income. tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 . 6 certain activities we do not base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in our portfolio may be sold when circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. while we may seek the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by our board of trustees without the vote of shareholders. employees as of december 31, 2013, we have approximately 4,369 employees, of which 339 are corporate staff. the new york segment has 3,244 employees, including 2,564 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york and washington, dc properties and 516 employees at the hotel pennsylvania. the washington, dc and retail properties segments have 448 and 107 employees, respectively and the merchandise mart properties have 231 employees. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities, including toys or alexander's, of which we own 32.6% and 32.4%, respectively. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k, and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial information, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. copies of our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon request. 7 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see forward-looking statements contained herein on page 3. real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to various factors. the value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; the development and/or redevelopment of our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; inflation or deflation; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to obtain adequate insurance; changes in zoning laws and taxation; government regulation; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attacks against, the united states; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; natural disasters; general competitive factors; and climate changes. the rents or sales proceeds we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations as well as the value of our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy. demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide, as it did in 2008 and 2009 due to the economic downturn, bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets. the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our results of operations, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities. 8 real estate is a competitive business. we compete with a large number of property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. principal factors of competition include rents charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national, regional and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population trends. we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. during periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. in the case of our malls and strip shopping centers, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available to pay our indebtedness or make distributions to shareholders. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. our predecessor companies may be subject to similar liabilities for activities of those companies in the past. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. to date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. we face risks associated with our tenants being designated prohibited persons by the office of foreign assets control. pursuant to executive order 13224 and other laws, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury ( ofac ) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned ( prohibited persons ) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the united states. our leases, loans and other agreements may require us to comply with ofac requirements. if a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the ofac list we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement. any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. 9 our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. the occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber security, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. a cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources. more specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. as our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. our three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants, and private data exposure. we have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident. some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, with sub-limits for certain perils such as floods. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $180,000,000 per occurrence, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property, up to a $180,000,000 annual aggregate. we maintain coverage for terrorism acts with limits of $4.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate, and $2.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate for terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) terrorism events, as defined by terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act, which expires in december 2014. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a portion of all risk property and rental value insurance and a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for coverage for nbcr acts. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. for nbcr acts, ppic is responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 and 15% of the balance of a covered loss and the federal government is responsible for the remaining 85% of a covered loss. we are ultimately responsible for any loss incurred by ppic. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. the americans with disabilities act ( ada ) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ada, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the ada, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. 10 our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. our investments are concentrated in the new york city metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area. circumstances affecting these areas generally could adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our properties are located in the new york city / new jersey metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas. in 2013, approximately 96% of our ebitda, excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the new york city metropolitan areas and the washington, dc / northern virginia area. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the united states or abroad. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the short or long term. declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. in addition to the factors affecting the national economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: financial performance and productivity of the media, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; space needs of, and budgetary constraints affecting, the united states government, including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and repositioning under the defense base closure and realignment act of 2005, as amended; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; infrastructure quality; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. it is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability. terrorist attacks, such as those of september 11, 2001 in new york city and the washington, dc area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the new york, washington, dc and san francisco metropolitan areas. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. natural disasters could have a concentrated impact on the areas where we operate and could adversely impact our results. our investments are concentrated in the new york, washington, dc, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. natural disasters, including earthquakes, storms and hurricanes, could impact our properties in these and other areas in which we operate. potentially adverse consequences of global warming could similarly have an impact on our properties. as a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or repair costs that may or may not be fully covered by insurance and to the risk of business interruption. the incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results. 11 we may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we may acquire, develop or redevelop real estate and acquire related companies and this may create risks. we may acquire, develop or redevelop properties or acquire real estate related companies when we believe doing so is consistent with our business strategy. we may not succeed in (i) developing, redeveloping or acquiring real estate and real estate related companies; (ii) completing these activities on time or within budget; and (iii) leasing or selling developed, redeveloped or acquired properties at amounts sufficient to cover our costs. competition in these activities could also significantly increase our costs. difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management's attention. acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. we may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred. furthermore, we may be exposed to the liabilities of properties or companies acquired, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our common shares. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our common shares. it may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar returns. as part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries with different risks than investing and operating real estate. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies that we may not control, including, but not limited to, alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ), toys r us ( toys ), lexington realty trust ( lexington ), and other equity and mezzanine investments. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from investing and operating real estate, including operating or managing toy stores. consequently, we are subject to operating and financial risks of those industries and to the risks associated with lack of control, such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing directly or indirectly with these partners or entities. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. we are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment. a substantial portion of our properties are in the retail shopping center real estate market and we have a significant investment in toys. this means that we are subject to factors that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the retailer in which we hold an investment and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, and in turn, adversely affect us. 12 our investment in toys subjects us to risks that are different from our other lines of business and may result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings. because toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. the business of toys is highly seasonal and substantially all of toys net income is generated in its fourth quarter. in addition, our fiscal year ends on december 31 whereas, as is common for retailers, toys' fiscal year ends on the saturday nearest to january 31. therefore, we record our pro rata share of toys' net earnings on a one-quarter lag basis. for example, our financial results for the year ended december 31, 2013 include toys' financial results for its first, second and third quarters ended november 2, 2013, as well as toys' fourth quarter results of 2012. because of the seasonality of toys, our reported quarterly net income shows increased volatility. we may also, in the future and from time to time, invest in other businesses that may report financial results that are more volatile than our historical financial results. we depend upon our anchor tenants to attract shoppers. we own several regional malls and other shopping centers that are typically anchored by well-known department stores and other tenants who generate shopping traffic at the mall or shopping center. the value of our properties would be adversely affected if tenants or anchors failed to meet their contractual obligations, sought concessions in order to continue operations or ceased their operations, including as a result of bankruptcy. if the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to economic conditions, closing of anchors or for other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. in the event of a default by a tenant or anchor, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. we evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period. if we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired. depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. this loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. we invest in marketable equity securities. the value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. we invest in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded companies, such as lexington realty trust. as of december 31, 2013, our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $191,917,000, at market. significant declines in the value of these investments due to, among other reasons, operating performance or economic or market conditions, may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material. our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. 13 vornado realty trust ( vornado ) depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred security holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to vornado. substantially all of vornado's assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado's ability to pay dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado. furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of class a units of the operating partnership, including vornado. thus, vornado's ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its class a units, including vornado. as of december 31, 2013, there were three series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado with a total liquidation value of $56,139,000. in addition, vornado's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. we have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. we rely on both secured and unsecured, variable rate and non-variable rate debt to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. in addition, the cost of our existing debt may increase, especially in the case of a rising interest rate environment, and we may not be able to refinance our existing debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. if the cost or amount of our indebtedness increases or we cannot refinance our debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we are at risk of credit ratings downgrades and default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured indebtedness and debt that we may obtain in the future may contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources or give possession of a secured property to the lender. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may fail to remain so qualified. qualifications are governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and depend on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a reit and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to shareholders. in addition, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. 14 we face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. from time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. the shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado. while we believe that we could find a replacement for him and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. vornado's charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. our amended and restated declaration of trust (the declaration of trust ) sets limits on the ownership of our shares. generally, for vornado to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado's taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado's declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by vornado's board of trustees. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. the maryland general corporation law (the mgcl ) contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. the mgcl imposes conditions and restrictions on certain business combinations (including, among other transactions, a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance of equity securities) between a maryland reit and certain persons who beneficially own at least 10% of the corporation's stock (an interested shareholder ). unless approved in advance by the board of trustees of the trust, or otherwise exempted by the statute, such a business combination is prohibited for a period of five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. after such five-year period, a business combination with an interested shareholder must be: (a) recommended by the board of trustees of the trust, and (b) approved by the affirmative vote of at least (i) 80% of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote and (ii) two-thirds of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote which are not held by the interested shareholder with whom the business combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the trust's common shareholders receive a fair price (as defined by the statute) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for his or her shares. in approving a transaction, the board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. vornado's board has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between vornado and any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates. as a result, any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado that may not be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. vornado has a classified board of trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's board of trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of vornado, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. 15 we may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado may issue. the board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders, although the board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado's declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our board of trustees. accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies. our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2013, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners owned an aggregate of approximately 6.6% of the common shares of vornado and 26.3% of the common stock of alexander's inc. (nyse: alx) ( alexander's ), which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado and on the outcome of any matters submitted to vornado's shareholders for approval. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity or debt holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander's currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. we currently manage and lease the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent. see the related party disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. there may be conflicts of interest between alexander's and us. as of december 31, 2013, we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's. alexander's is a reit that has six properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 2.1% that they indirectly own through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 26.3% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's as of december 31, 2013. mr. roth is the chairman of the board and chief executive office of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's and general partners of interstate properties. dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander's. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president finance and chief administrative officer, is the executive vice president and chief financial officer of alexander's. 16 we manage, develop and lease alexander's properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from alexander's. see the related party disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our common shares. among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are: our financial condition and performance; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; our dividend policy; the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reits; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional investor interest in us; the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for reits and other real estate related companies; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this annual report on the form 10-k. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders. vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares. the interests of our current shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. as of december 31, 2013, we had authorized but unissued, 62,715,312 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 57,266,023 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 20,356,425 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 11,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding shares. in addition, under maryland law, the board has the authority to increase the number of authorized shares without shareholder approval. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. market interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. our exposure to a change in interest rates on our consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as follows: (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 2013 2012 weighted effect of 1% weighted december 31, average change in december 31, average consolidated debt: balance interest rate base rates balance interest rate variable rate $ 1,064,730 2.01% $ 10,647 $ 2,998,221 1.84% fixed rate 8,913,988 4.73% - 8,129,009 5.18% $ 9,978,718 4.44% 10,647 $ 11,127,230 4.28% prorata share of debt of non- consolidated entities (non-recourse): variable rate excluding toys $ 196,240 2.09% 1,962 $ 264,531 2.88% variable rate toys 1,179,001 5.45% 11,790 703,922 5.69% fixed rate (including $682,484 and $1,148,407 of toys debt in 2013 and 2012) 2,814,162 6.46% - 3,030,476 7.04% $ 4,189,403 5.97% 13,752 $ 3,998,929 6.53% redeemable noncontrolling interests' share of above (1,415) total change in annual net income $ 22,984 per share-diluted $ 0.12 we may utilize various financial instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings, including hedging strategies, depending on our analysis of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies. as of december 31, 2013, we have one interest rate cap with a principal amount of $60,000,000 and a weighted average interest rate of 2.36%. this cap is based on a notional amount of $60,000,000 and caps libor at a rate of 7.00%. in addition, we have one interest rate swap on a $425,000,000 mortgage loan that swapped the rate from libor plus 2.00% (2.17% at december 31, 2013) to a fixed rate of 5.13% for the remaining five-year term of the loan. as of december 31, 2013, we have investments in mezzanine loans with an aggregate carrying amount of $152,853,000 that are based on variable interest rates which partially mitigate our exposure to a change in interest rates. fair value of debt the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt is calculated based on current market prices and discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt. as of december 31, 2013, the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt was $9,802,000,000. 92risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 3 part i item 1. business vornado realty trust ( vornado ) is a fully integrated real estate investment trust ( reit ) and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, vornado realty l.p., a delaware limited partnership (the operating partnership ). accordingly, vornado's cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the operating partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors. vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 94.1% of the common limited partnership interest in the operating partnership at december 31, 2014. all references to we, us, our, the company and vornado refer to vornado realty trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the operating partnership. on january 15, 2015, we completed the spin-off of substantially all of our retail segment comprised of 79 strip shopping centers, three malls, a warehouse park and $225 million of cash to urban edge properties ( ue ) (nyse: ue). as part of this transaction, we received 5,712,000 ue operating partnership units (5.4% ownership interest). we currently own all or portions of: new york: 20.1 million square feet of manhattan office space in 31 properties; 2.5 million square feet of manhattan street retail space in 56 properties; four residential properties containing 1,654 units; the 1,700 room hotel pennsylvania located on seventh avenue at 33 rd street in the heart of the penn plaza district; a 32.4% interest in alexander's, inc. (nyse: alx), which owns six properties in the greater new york metropolitan area, including 731 lexington avenue, the 1.3 million square foot bloomberg, l.p. headquarters building; washington, dc: 16.1 million square feet of office space in 59 properties; seven residential properties containing 2,414 units; other real estate and related investments: the 3.6 million square foot mart in chicago; a 70% controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building office complex in san francisco's financial district aggregating 1.8 million square feet, known as the bank of america center; a 25.0% interest in vornado capital partners, our real estate fund. we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund; a 32.6% interest in toys r us, inc.; and other real estate and related investments. 4 objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and execute our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city and washington, dc, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the new york city metropolitan area developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the future. acquisitions since january 1, 2014, we completed the following acquisitions: a 74.3% interest in the retail condominium of the st. regis hotel, located on the southeast corner of 55 th street and fifth avenue, for $700 million the land under our 715 lexington avenue retail property, located on the southeast corner of 58 th street and lexington avenue in manhattan, for $63 million we increased our ownership in one park avenue to 55.0% from 46.5% through a joint venture with an institutional investor we increased our ownership in crowne plaza times square hotel to 33% from 11% by co-investing with our 25% owned real estate fund and one of the fund's limited partners to buy out the fund's joint venture partner's 57% interest additional details about our acquisitions are provided in the overview of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. dispositions since january 1, 2014, we sold nine assets for an aggregate of $1.025 billion, with net proceeds of approximately $989 million. below is a summary of these sales. 1740 broadway for $605 million resulting in net proceeds of approximately $580 million beverly connection shopping center for $260 million resulting in net proceeds of $252 million broadway mall for $94 million resulting in net proceeds of $92.2 million six retail assets for an aggregate of $66.4 million resulting in net proceeds of $64.8 million additional details about our dispositions are provided in the overview of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 5 financings since january 1, 2014, we completed the following financing transactions: extended one of two $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facilities to november 2018 with two six-month extension options, lowering the interest rate to libor plus 1.05% from libor plus 1.25% and reducing the facility fee to 20 basis points from 25 basis points issued $450 million 2.50% senior unsecured notes due june 2019 redeemed $ 445 million 7.875 % senior unsecured notes due october 2039 redeemed $500 million 4.25% senior unsecured notes due april 2015 obtained $ 2.0 billion of mortgage financings and repaid $519 million and defeased $193 million of existing mortgages for aggregate net proceeds of $1.3 billion additional details about our financings are provided in the overview of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. segment data we operate in the following business segments: new york, washington, dc, retail properties, and toys r us ( toys ). financial information related to these business segments for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 is set forth in note 25 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the business of toys is highly seasonal and substantially all of toys' net income is generated in its fourth quarter, which we record on a one-quarter lag basis in our first quarter. the new york and washington, dc segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. the retail properties segment revenue in the fourth quarter is typically higher due to the recognition of percentage and specialty rental income. tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 . 6 certain activities we do not base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in our portfolio may be sold when circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. while we may seek the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by our board of trustees without the vote of shareholders. employees as of december 31, 2014, we have approximately 4,503 employees, of which 329 are corporate staff. the new york segment has 3,400 employees, including 2,735 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york and washington, dc properties and 508 employees at the hotel pennsylvania. the washington, dc and retail properties segments have 457 and 77 employees, respectively and the mart properties have 240 employees. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k, and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial information, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. copies of our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon request. 7 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see forward-looking statements contained herein on page 3. real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to various factors. the value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: global, national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; the development and/or redevelopment of our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; inflation or deflation; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to obtain adequate insurance; changes in zoning laws and taxation; government regulation; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attacks against, the united states or individual acts of violence in public spaces including retail centers; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; natural disasters; general competitive factors; and climate changes. the rents or sales proceeds we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations as well as the value of our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy. demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide, as it did in 2008 and 2009 due to the economic downturn, bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets. the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our results of operations, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities. 8 real estate is a competitive business. we compete with a large number of property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments than we are. principal factors of competition include rents charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the global, national, regional and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population and employment trends. we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. during periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available to pay our indebtedness or make distributions to shareholders. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. our predecessor companies may be subject to similar liabilities for activities of those companies in the past. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. to date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. in addition, we may become subject to costs or taxes, or increases therein, associated with natural resource or energy usage (such as a carbon tax ). these costs or taxes could increase our operating costs and decrease the cash available to pay our obligations or distribute to equity holders. 9 we face risks associated with our tenants being designated prohibited persons by the office of foreign assets control and similar requirements. pursuant to executive order 13224 and other laws, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury ( ofac ) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned ( prohibited persons ) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the united states and thereby restricts our doing business with such persons. our leases, loans and other agreements may require us to comply with ofac and related requirements. if a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the ofac list or is otherwise a party with which we are prohibited from doing business, we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement. any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. the occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber security, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. a cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources. more specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. as our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. our primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident are theft of assets, operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants, and private data exposure. we have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident. some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, with sub-limits for certain perils such as floods. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $180,000,000 per occurrence, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property, up to a $180,000,000 annual aggregate. we maintain coverage for terrorism acts with limits of $4.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate, and $2.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate for terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) terrorism events, as defined by terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act, which expires in december 2020. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a portion of all risk property and rental value insurance and a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for coverage for nbcr acts. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. for nbcr acts, ppic is responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 and 15% of the balance of a covered loss (16% effective january 1, 2016) and the federal government is responsible for the remaining 85% of a covered loss (84% effective january 1, 2016). we are ultimately responsible for any loss incurred by ppic. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio. 10 compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. the americans with disabilities act ( ada ) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ada, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the ada, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. our investments are concentrated in the new york city metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area. circumstances affecting these areas generally could adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our properties are located in the new york city / new jersey metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas. in 2014, approximately 98% of our ebitda, excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the new york city metropolitan area and the washington, dc / northern virginia area. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the united states or abroad. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the short or long term. declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. in addition to the factors affecting the national economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: financial performance and productivity of the media, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; space needs of, and budgetary constraints affecting, the united states government, including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and repositioning under the defense base closure and realignment act of 2005, as amended; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; infrastructure quality; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. it is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability. terrorist attacks, such as those of september 11, 2001 in new york city and the washington, dc area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the new york, washington, dc, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. natural disasters could have a concentrated impact on the areas where we operate and could adversely impact our results. our investments are concentrated in the new york, washington, dc, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. natural disasters, including earthquakes, storms and hurricanes, could impact our properties in these and other areas in which we operate. potentially adverse consequences of global warming could similarly have an impact on our properties. as a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or repair costs that may or may not be fully covered by insurance and to the risk of business interruption. the incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results. 11 we may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we may acquire, develop or redevelop real estate and acquire related companies and this may create risks. we may acquire, develop or redevelop properties or acquire real estate related companies when we believe doing so is consistent with our business strategy. we may not succeed in (i) developing, redeveloping or acquiring real estate and real estate related companies; (ii) completing these activities on time or within budget; and (iii) leasing or selling developed, redeveloped or acquired properties at amounts sufficient to cover our costs. competition in these activities could also significantly increase our costs. difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management's attention. acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. we may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred. furthermore, we may be exposed to the liabilities of properties or companies acquired, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our common shares. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our common shares. it may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar returns. as part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries with different risks than investing and operating real estate. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies that we may not control, including, but not limited to, alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ), toys r us ( toys ), lexington realty trust ( lexington ), and other equity and mezzanine investments. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from investing and operating real estate, including operating or managing toy stores. consequently, we are subject to operating and financial risks of those industries and to the risks associated with lack of control, such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing directly or indirectly with these partners or entities. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. we are subject to risks that affect the general and new york city retail environments. certain of our properties are manhattan street retail properties. as such, these properties are affected by the general and new york city retail environments, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail locations, and in turn, adversely affect us. 12 our investment in toys has in the past and may in the future result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings. we carry our toys investment at zero. as a result, we no longer record our equity in toys' income or loss. because toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. the business of toys is highly seasonal and substantially all of toys net income is generated in its fourth quarter. it is possible that the value of toys may increase and we could again resume recording our equity in toys' income or loss, which would increase the seasonality and volatility of our reported earnings. our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. we evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period. if we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired. depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. this loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. we invest in marketable equity securities. the value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. we invest in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded companies, such as lexington realty trust. as of december 31, 2014, our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $206,323,000, at market. significant declines in the value of these investments due to, among other reasons, operating performance or economic or market conditions, may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material. our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. vornado realty trust ( vornado ) depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred security holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to vornado. substantially all of vornado's assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado's ability to pay dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado. 13 furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of class a units of the operating partnership, including vornado. thus, vornado's ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its class a units, including vornado. as of december 31, 2014, there were three series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado with a total liquidation value of $56,206,000. in addition, vornado's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. we have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. we rely on both secured and unsecured, variable rate and non-variable rate debt to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. in addition, the cost of our existing debt may increase, especially in the case of a rising interest rate environment, and we may not be able to refinance our existing debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. if the cost or amount of our indebtedness increases or we cannot refinance our debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we are at risk of credit ratings downgrades and default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured indebtedness and debt that we may obtain in the future may contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources or give possession of a secured property to the lender. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may fail to remain so qualified. qualifications are governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and depend on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a reit and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to shareholders. in addition, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. we face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. from time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. the shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado. while we believe that we could find a replacement for him and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. 14 vornado's charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. our amended and restated declaration of trust (the declaration of trust ) sets limits on the ownership of our shares. generally, for vornado to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado's taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado's declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by vornado's board of trustees. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. the maryland general corporation law (the mgcl ) contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. the mgcl imposes conditions and restrictions on certain business combinations (including, among other transactions, a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance of equity securities) between a maryland reit and certain persons who beneficially own at least 10% of the corporation's stock (an interested shareholder ). unless approved in advance by the board of trustees of the trust, or otherwise exempted by the statute, such a business combination is prohibited for a period of five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. after such five-year period, a business combination with an interested shareholder must be: (a) recommended by the board of trustees of the trust, and (b) approved by the affirmative vote of at least (i) 80% of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote and (ii) two-thirds of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote which are not held by the interested shareholder with whom the business combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the trust's common shareholders receive a fair price (as defined by the statute) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for his or her shares. in approving a transaction, the board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. vornado's board has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between vornado and any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates. as a result, any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado that may not be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. vornado has a classified board of trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's board of trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of vornado, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. we may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado may issue. the board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders, although the board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado's declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. 15 we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our board of trustees. accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies. our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2014, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners owned an aggregate of approximately 6.6% of the common shares of vornado and 26.3% of the common stock of alexander's inc. (nyse: alx) ( alexander's ), which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado and on the outcome of any matters submitted to vornado's shareholders for approval. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity or debt holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander's currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. we manage and lease the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent. see the related party disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. there may be conflicts of interest between alexander's and us. as of december 31, 2014, we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's. alexander's is a reit that has six properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 2.1% that they indirectly own through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 26.3% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's as of december 31, 2014. mr. roth is the chairman of the board and chief executive office of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's and general partners of interstate properties. dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander's. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president finance and chief administrative officer, is the executive vice president and chief financial officer of alexander's, and stephen w. theriot, our chief financial officer, is the assistant treasurer of alexander's. we manage, develop and lease alexander's properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from alexander's. see the related party disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. 16 the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our common shares. among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are: our financial condition and performance; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; our dividend policy; the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reits; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional investor interest in us; the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for reits and other real estate related companies; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this annual report on the form 10-k. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders. vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares. the interests of our current shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. as of december 31, 2014, we had authorized but unissued, 62,112,502 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 57,266,023 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 19,488,139 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 11,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding shares. in addition, under maryland law, the board has the authority to increase the number of authorized shares without shareholder approval. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. market interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. our exposure to a change in interest rates on our consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as follows: (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 2014 2013 weighted effect of 1% weighted december 31, average change in december 31, average consolidated debt: balance interest rate base rates balance interest rate variable rate $ 1,840,769 2.20% $ 18,408 $ 1,064,730 2.01% fixed rate 9,058,090 4.37% - 8,913,988 4.73% $ 10,898,859 4.00% 18,408 $ 9,978,718 4.44% prorata share of debt of non- consolidated entities (non-recourse): variable rate excluding toys $ 319,387 1.74% 3,194 $ 196,240 2.09% variable rate toys 1,199,835 6.47% 11,998 1,179,001 5.45% fixed rate (including $674,443 and $682,484 of toys debt in 2014 and 2013) 2,754,410 6.43% - 2,814,162 6.46% $ 4,273,632 6.09% 15,192 $ 4,189,403 5.97% redeemable noncontrolling interests' share of above (1,949) total change in annual net income $ 31,651 per share-diluted $ 0.17 we may utilize various financial instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings, including hedging strategies, depending on our analysis of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies. as of december 31, 2014, we have one interest rate cap with a principal amount of $60,000,000 and a weighted average interest rate of 2.36%. this cap is based on a notional amount of $60,000,000 and caps libor at a rate of 7.00%. in addition, we have one interest rate swap on a $422,000,000 mortgage loan that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.65% (1.81% at december 31, 2014) to a fixed rate of 4.78% through march 2018. fair value of debt the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt is calculated based on current market prices and discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt. as of december 31, 2014, the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt was $10,936,000,000. 94risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 4 part i item 1. business vornado realty trust ( vornado ) is a fully integrated real estate investment trust ( reit ) and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, vornado realty l.p., a delaware limited partnership (the operating partnership ). accordingly, vornado's cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the operating partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors. vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 93.7% of the common limited partnership interest in the operating partnership at december 31, 2015. all references to we, us, our, the company and vornado refer to vornado realty trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the operating partnership. on january 15, 2015, we completed the spin-off of substantially all of our retail segment comprised of 79 strip shopping centers, three malls, a warehouse park and $225 million of cash to urban edge properties ( ue ) (nyse: ue). as part of this transaction, we received 5,717,184 ue operating partnership units (5.4% ownership interest). we currently own all or portions of: new york: 21.3 million square feet of manhattan office space in 35 properties; 2.6 million square feet of manhattan street retail space in 65 properties; 1,711 units in eleven residential properties; the 1,700 room hotel pennsylvania located on seventh avenue at 33 rd street in the heart of the penn plaza district; a 32.4% interest in alexander's, inc. (nyse: alx), which owns seven properties in the greater new york metropolitan area, including 731 lexington avenue, the 1.3 million square foot bloomberg, l.p. headquarters building; washington, dc: 15.8 million square feet of office space in 57 properties; 2,414 units in seven residential properties; other real estate and related investments: the 3.6 million square foot mart ( themart ) in chicago; a 70% controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building office complex in san francisco's financial district aggregating 1.8 million square feet, known as the bank of america center; a 25.0% interest in vornado capital partners, our real estate fund. we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund; a 32.5% interest in toys r us, inc.; and other real estate and other investments. 5 objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and execute our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city and washington, dc, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the new york city metropolitan area developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the future. acquisitions since january 1, 2015, we acquired assets aggregating $845.8 million. below is the summary of the significant acquisitions. 150 west 34th street for approximately $355 million the center building, located at 33-00 northern boulevard in long island city, ny for $142 million 260 eleventh avenue for 813,900 newly issued vornado operating partnership units valued at approximately $80 million 265 west 34th street for approximately $28.5 million we increased our ownership in crowne plaza times square hotel to 33% from 11% by co-investing with our 25% owned real estate fund and one of the fund's limited partners to buy out the fund's joint venture partner's 57% interest we entered into a joint venture in which we have a 55% ownership interest to develop a class-a office building at 512 west 22nd street additional details about our acquisitions are provided in the overview of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. dispositions since january 1, 2015, we sold eleven assets for an aggregate of $1.044 billion, with net proceeds of approximately $980 million. below is a summary of these sales. we completed the spin-off of substantially all of our retail segment to urban edge properties 20 broad street for an aggregate consideration of $200 million resulting in net proceeds of $193.2 million 1750 pennsylvania avenue, nw in washington, dc for $182 million resulting in net proceeds of $177.6 million our 50% interest in the monmouth mall in eatontown, nj for $38 million our geary street, ca lease for $35.3 million resulting in net proceeds of $34.2 million we transferred the redeveloped springfield town center, located in springfield, va to preit associates, l.p. for $485.3 million resulting in net proceeds of $463.5 million. five residual retail assets for an aggregate of $11.4 million resulting in net proceeds of $10.7 million 520 broadway for $91.7 million resulting in net proceeds of $62.9 million additional details about our dispositions are provided in the overview of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 6 financings since january 1, 2015, we completed the following financing transactions: entered into an unsecured delayed-draw term loan facility in the maximum amount of $750 million ($187.5 million outstanding at december 31, 2015) completed $700 million refinancing of 770 broadway for net proceeds of approximately $330 million. completed $580 million refinancing of 100 west 33rd street for net proceeds of approximately $242 million redeemed $500 million 4.25% senior unsecured notes due april 2015 completed $450 million financing of the retail condominium of the st. regis hotel and the adjacent retail town house completed $375 million refinancing of 888 seventh avenue for net proceeds of approximately $49 million upsized loan on 220 central park south development by $350 million to $950 million completed $308 million refinancing of riverhouse apartments for net proceeds of approximately $43 million $205 million of financing in connection with acquisition of 150 west 34th street additional details about our financings are provided in the overview of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. development and redevelopment expenditures we are constructing a residential condominium tower containing 392,000 salable square feet on our 220 central park south development site. the incremental development cost of this project is approximately $1.3 billion, of which $293 million has been expended as of december 31, 2015. we are developing the bartlett, a 699-unit residential project in pentagon city, which is expected to be completed in 2016. the project includes a 40,000 square foot whole foods market at the base of the building. the incremental development cost of this project is approximately $250 million, of which $166 million has been expended as of december 31, 2015. on june 24, 2015, we entered into a joint venture, in which we own a 55% interest, to develop a 173,000 square foot class-a office building, located along the western edge of the high line at 512 west 22nd street in the west chelsea submarket of manhattan. the development cost of this project is approximately $235 million. on november 24, 2015, the joint venture obtained a $126 million construction loan. the loan matures in november 2019 with two six-month extension options. the interest rate is libor plus 2.65% (3.07% at december 31, 2015). as of december 31, 2015, the outstanding balance of the loan was $44.1 million, of which $24.2 million is our share. on july 23, 2014, a joint venture in which we are a 50.1% partner entered into a 99-year ground lease for 61 ninth avenue located on the southwest corner of ninth avenue and 15th street in the west chelsea submarket of manhattan. the venture's current plans are to construct an office building, with retail at the base, of approximately 167,000 square feet. total development costs are currently estimated to be approximately $150 million. we plan to demolish two adjacent washington, dc office properties, 1726 m street and 1150 17th street in the first half of 2016 and replace them in the future with a new 335,000 square foot class a office building, to be addressed 1700 m street. the incremental development cost of the project is approximately $170 million. we are also evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities at certain of our properties in manhattan, including the penn plaza district, and in washington, including crystal city, rosslyn and pentagon city. there can be no assurance that any of our development or redevelopment projects will commence, or if commenced, be completed, or completed on schedule or within budget. 7 segment data we operate in the following business segments: new york and washington, dc. financial information related to these business segments for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 is set forth in note 24 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the new york and washington, dc segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 . certain activities we do not base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in our portfolio may be sold when circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. while we may seek the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by our board of trustees without the vote of shareholders. employees as of december 31, 2015, we have approximately 4,089 employees, of which 298 are corporate staff. the new york segment has 3,242 employees, including 2,566 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york and washington, dc properties and 487 employees at the hotel pennsylvania. the washington, dc segment and themart properties have 462 and 87 employees, respectively. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k, and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial information, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. copies of our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon request. 8 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see forward-looking statements contained herein on page 4. real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to various factors. the value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: global, national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; the development and/or redevelopment of our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; changes in space utilization by our tenants due to technology, economic conditions and business environment; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; inflation or deflation; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to obtain adequate insurance; changes in zoning laws and taxation; government regulation; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attacks against, the united states or individual acts of violence in public spaces including retail centers; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; natural disasters; general competitive factors; and climate changes. the rents or sales proceeds we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations as well as the value of our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy. demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide, as it did in 2008 and 2009 due to the economic downturn, bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets. the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our results of operations, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities. 9 real estate is a competitive business. we compete with a large number of real estate property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. principal factors of competition are rents charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and the quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the global, national, regional and local economies, the financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation, population and employment trends. we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. during periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. in addition, changes in space utilization by our tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available to pay our indebtedness or make distributions to shareholders. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. our predecessor companies may be subject to similar liabilities for activities of those companies in the past. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. 10 each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. to date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. in addition, we may become subject to costs or taxes, or increases therein, associated with natural resource or energy usage (such as a carbon tax ). these costs or taxes could increase our operating costs and decrease the cash available to pay our obligations or distribute to equity holders. we face risks associated with our tenants being designated prohibited persons by the office of foreign assets control and similar requirements. pursuant to executive order 13224 and other laws, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury ( ofac ) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned ( prohibited persons ) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the united states and thereby restricts our doing business with such persons. we are required to comply with ofac and related requirements and may be required to terminate or otherwise amend our leases, loans and other agreements. if a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the ofac list or is otherwise a party with which we are prohibited from doing business, we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement. any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. the occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber security, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships or reputation, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. we face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons who access our systems from inside or outside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our it networks and related systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. our it networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing our building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving our it networks and related systems could disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our tenants; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or which could expose us to damage claims by third-parties for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space; require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of leases or other agreements; or damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally. any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 11 some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and per property, and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, with sub-limits for certain perils such as flood and earthquake. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $180,000,000 per occurrence and in the annual aggregate, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property. we maintain coverage for terrorism acts with limits of $4.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate, and $2.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate for terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) terrorism events, as defined by terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2015, which expires in december 2020. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a portion of all risk property and rental value insurance and a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for coverage for acts of terrorism including nbcr acts. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. for nbcr acts, ppic is responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 ($2,400,000 effective january 1, 2016) per occurrence and 15% of the balance of a covered loss (16% effective january 1, 2016) and the federal government is responsible for the remaining 85% of a covered loss (84% effective january 1, 2016). we are ultimately responsible for any loss incurred by ppic. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. the americans with disabilities act ( ada ) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ada, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the ada, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. 12 our investments are concentrated in the new york city metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area. circumstances affecting these areas generally could adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our properties are located in the new york city / new jersey metropolitan area and washington, dc / northern virginia area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas. in 2015, approximately 92% of our ebitda, excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the new york city metropolitan area and the washington, dc / northern virginia area. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the united states or abroad. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the short or long term. declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. in addition to the factors affecting the national economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: financial performance and productivity of the media, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; space needs of, and budgetary constraints affecting, the united states government, including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and repositioning under the defense base closure and realignment act of 2005, as amended; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; infrastructure quality; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. it is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability. terrorist attacks, such as those of september 11, 2001 in new york city and the washington, dc area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the new york, washington, dc, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. in response to a terrorist attack or the perceived threat of terrorism, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. natural disasters and the effects of climate change could have a concentrated impact on the areas where we operate and could adversely impact our results. our investments are concentrated in the new york, washington, dc, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. natural disasters, including earthquakes, storms and hurricanes, could impact our properties in these and other areas in which we operate. potentially adverse consequences of global warming could similarly have an impact on our properties. as a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or repair costs that may or may not be fully covered by insurance and to the risk of business interruption. the incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results. 13 we may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we may acquire, develop or redevelop real estate and acquire related companies and this may create risks. we may acquire, develop or redevelop properties or acquire real estate related companies when we believe doing so is consistent with our business strategy. we may not succeed in (i) developing, redeveloping or acquiring real estate and real estate related companies; (ii) completing these activities on time or within budget; and (iii) leasing or selling developed, redeveloped or acquired properties at amounts sufficient to cover our costs. competition in these activities could also significantly increase our costs. difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management's attention. acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. we may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred. furthermore, we may be exposed to the liabilities of properties or companies acquired, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our common shares. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our common shares. it may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar returns. as part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries with different risks than investing and operating real estate. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies that we may not control, including, but not limited to, alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ), toys r us, inc. ( toys ), lexington realty trust ( lexington ), urban edge properties ( ue ), pennsylvania real estate investment trust ( preit ), and other equity and loan investments. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from investing and operating real estate, including operating or managing toy stores. consequently, we are subject to operating and financial risks of those industries and to the risks associated with lack of control, such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing directly or indirectly with these partners or entities. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. we are subject to risks that affect the general and new york city retail environments. certain of our properties are manhattan street retail properties. as such, these properties are affected by the general and new york city retail environments, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail locations, and in turn, adversely affect us. 14 our investment in toys has in the past and may in the future result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings. we carry our toys investment at zero. as a result, we no longer record our equity in toys' income or loss. because toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. the business of toys is highly seasonal and substantially all of toys net income is generated in its fourth quarter. it is possible that the value of toys may increase and we could again resume recording our equity in toys' income or loss, which would increase the seasonality and volatility of our reported earnings. our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. we evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period. if we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired. depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. this loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. we invest in marketable equity securities. the value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. we invest in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded companies, such as lexington realty trust. as of december 31, 2015, our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $150,997,000, at market. significant declines in the value of these investments due to, among other reasons, operating performance or economic or market conditions, may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material. our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. vornado realty trust ( vornado ) depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred security holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to vornado. substantially all of vornado's assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado's ability to pay dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado. furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of class a units of the operating partnership, including vornado. thus, vornado's ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its class a units, including vornado. as of december 31, 2015, there were four series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado with a total liquidation value of $56,007,000. 15 in addition, vornado's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness that could affect our future operations. as of december 31, 2015, our consolidated mortgages and unsecured indebtedness, excluding related premium, discount and deferred financing costs, net, totaled $11.2 billion. we are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. our debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property. should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from such property is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value. we have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. we rely on both secured and unsecured, variable rate and non-variable rate debt to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. in addition, the cost of our existing debt may increase, especially in the case of a rising interest rate environment, and we may not be able to refinance our existing debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. if the cost or amount of our indebtedness increases or we cannot refinance our debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we are at risk of credit ratings downgrades and default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured indebtedness and debt that we may obtain in the future may contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources or give possession of a secured property to the lender. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred shares could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common shares or any other securities. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. 16 vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may fail to remain so qualified. qualifications are governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and depend on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a reit and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would not be required to make distributions to shareholders in that taxable year and in future years until we were able to qualify as a reit. in addition, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. we face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. from time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. the shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado. while we believe that we could find a replacement for him and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares. vornado's charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. our amended and restated declaration of trust (the declaration of trust ) sets limits on the ownership of our shares. generally, for vornado to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado's taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado's declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by vornado's board of trustees. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. the maryland general corporation law (the mgcl ) contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. the mgcl imposes conditions and restrictions on certain business combinations (including, among other transactions, a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance of equity securities) between a maryland reit and certain persons who beneficially own at least 10% of the corporation's stock (an interested shareholder ). unless approved in advance by the board of trustees of the trust, or otherwise exempted by the statute, such a business combination is prohibited for a period of five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. after such five-year period, a business combination with an interested shareholder must be: (a) recommended by the board of trustees of the trust, and (b) approved by the affirmative vote of at least (i) 80% of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote and (ii) two-thirds of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote which are not held by the interested shareholder with whom the business combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the trust's common shareholders receive a fair price (as defined by the statute) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for his or her shares. 17 in approving a transaction, the board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. vornado's board has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between vornado and any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates. as a result, any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado that may not be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. vornado has a classified board of trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's board of trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of vornado, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders. we may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado may issue. the board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of vornado's shareholders, although the board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado's declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our board of trustees. accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies. our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2015, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners owned an aggregate of approximately 7.1% of the common shares of vornado and 26.3% of the common stock of alexander's, inc. (nyse: alx) ( alexander's ), which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado and on the outcome of any matters submitted to vornado's shareholders for approval. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity or debt holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander's currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. we manage and lease the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of annual base rent and percentage rent. see the related party disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. 18 there may be conflicts of interest between alexander's and us. as of december 31, 2015, we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's. alexander's is a reit that has seven properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 2.3% that they indirectly own through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 26.3% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's as of december 31, 2015. mr. roth is the chairman of the board and chief executive office of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's and general partners of interstate properties. dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander's. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president finance and chief administrative officer, is the executive vice president and chief financial officer of alexander's, and stephen w. theriot, our chief financial officer, is the assistant treasurer of alexander's. we manage, develop and lease alexander's properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from alexander's. see the related party disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate. the trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our common shares. among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are: our financial condition and performance; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; our dividend policy; the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reits; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional investor interest in us; the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for reits and other real estate related companies; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this annual report on the form 10-k. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders. vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares. the interests of our current shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. as of december 31, 2015, we had authorized but unissued, 61,423,147 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 57,266,023 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 19,923,393 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 11,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding shares. in addition, under maryland law, the board has the authority to increase the number of authorized shares without shareholder approval. 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. market interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. our exposure to a change in interest rates on our consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as follows: (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 2015 2014 weighted effect of 1% weighted december 31, average change in december 31, average consolidated debt: balance interest rate base rates balance interest rate variable rate $ 3,995,704 2.00% $ 39,957 $ 1,763,769 2.20% fixed rate 7,206,634 4.21% - 7,847,286 4.36% $ 11,202,338 3.42% 39,957 $ 9,611,055 3.97% pro rata share of debt of non-consolidated entities (non-recourse): variable rate excluding toys $ 485,160 1.97% 4,852 $ 313,652 1.69% variable rate toys 1,164,893 6.61% 11,649 1,199,835 6.47% fixed rate (including $661,513 and $674,443 of toys debt in 2015 and 2014) 2,782,025 6.37% - 2,676,941 6.48% $ 4,432,078 5.95% 16,501 $ 4,190,428 6.12% redeemable noncontrolling interests' share of above (3,387) total change in annual net income $ 53,071 per share-diluted $ 0.28 we may utilize various financial instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings, including hedging strategies, depending on our analysis of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies. as of december 31, 2015, we have an interest rate swap on a $417,000,000 mortgage loan that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.65% (1.89% at december 31, 2015) to a fixed rate of 4.78% through march 2018. in connection with the $375,000,000 refinancing of 888 seventh avenue, we entered into an interest rate swap from libor plus 1.60% (1.92% at december 31, 2015) to a fixed rate of 3.15% through december 2020. fair value of debt the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt is calculated based on current market prices and discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt. as of december 31, 2015, the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt was $10,911,500,000. 88risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 6 part i item 1. business vornado is a fully integrated reit and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, the operating partnership, a delaware limited partnership. accordingly, vornado's cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the operating partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors. vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 93.7% of the common limited partnership interest in the operating partnership at december 31, 2016. on october 31, 2016, vornado's board of trustees approved the tax-free spin-off of our washington, dc segment and we entered into a definitive agreement to merge it with the business and certain select assets of the jbg companies ( jbg ), a washington, dc real estate company. steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado, will be chairman of the board of trustees of the new company, which will be named jbg smith properties. mitchell schear, president of our washington, dc business, will be a member of the board of trustees of the new company. the pro rata distribution to vornado common shareholders and class a operating partnership unitholders is intended to be treated as a tax-free spin-off for u.s. federal income tax purposes. it is expected to be made on a pro rata 1:2 basis. the initial form 10 registration statement relating to the spin-off and merger was filed with the sec on january 23, 2017 and the distribution and combination are expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2017. the distribution and combination are subject to certain conditions, including the sec declaring the form 10 registration statement effective, filing and approval of the new company's listing application, receipt of regulatory approvals and third party consents by each of the company and jbg, and formal declaration of the distribution by vornado's board of trustees. the distribution and combination are not subject to a vote by vornado's shareholders or operating partnership unitholders. vornado's board of trustees has approved the transaction. jbg has obtained all requisite approvals from its investment funds for this transaction. there can be no assurance that this transaction will be completed. we currently own all or portions of: new york: 20.2 million square feet of manhattan office space in 36 properties; 2.7 million square feet of manhattan street retail space in 70 properties; 2,004 units in twelve residential properties; the 1,700 room hotel pennsylvania located on seventh avenue at 33rd street in the heart of the penn plaza district; a 32.4 % interest in alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ) (nyse: alx), which owns seven properties in the greater new york metropolitan area, including 731 lexington avenue, the 1.3 million square foot bloomberg, l.p. headquarters building; washington, dc: 11.1 million square feet of office space in 44 properties; 3,156 units in nine residential properties; other real estate and related investments: the 3.7 million square foot mart ( themart ) in chicago; a 70 % controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building office complex in san francisco's financial district aggregating 1.8 million square feet, known as the bank of america center; a 25.0 % interest in vornado capital partners, our real estate fund. we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund; a 32.5 % interest in toys r us, inc. ( toys ); and other real estate and other investments. 7 objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize vornado shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and execute our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit; investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation; acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents; investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the new york city metropolitan area; developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value; and investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component. we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the future. acquisitions there were no significant acquisitions during 2016. dispositions on may 27, 2016, we sold a 47% ownership interest in 7 west 34th street for net proceeds of $127.4 million. on august 24, 2016, the skyline properties, located in fairfax, virginia, were placed in receivership. on december 21, 2016, the final disposition of the skyline properties was completed by the receiver. in connection therewith, the skyline properties' assets (approximately $236.5 million) and liabilities (approximately $724.4 million), were removed from our consolidated balance sheet which resulted in a net gain of $487.9 million. there was no taxable income related to this transaction. on december 19, 2016, we sold a 20% ownership interest in fairfax square for $15.5 million. financings we completed the following financing transactions during 2016: $900 million refinancing of 280 park avenue (50% owned); $700 million refinancing of 770 broadway for net proceeds of approximately $330 million; $675 million refinancing of themart for net proceeds of approximately $124 million; $400 million refinancing of 350 park avenue for net proceeds of approximately $111 million; $300 million refinancing of one park avenue (55% owned); $300 million financing of 7 west 34th street (53% owned as of may 27, 2016); $273 million refinancing of the warner building (55% owned); $ 80 million refinancing of 50-70 west 93rd street (49.9% owned); and $247 million redemption of all of the outstanding 6.875% series j cumulative redeemable preferred shares we also extended one of our two $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facilities to february 2021 with two six-month extension options, lowering the interest rate from libor plus 115 basis points to libor plus 100 basis points. the facility fee remains unchanged at 20 basis points. 8 development and redevelopment expenditures we are constructing a residential condominium tower containing 397,000 salable square feet on our 220 central park south development site. the incremental development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $1.3 billion, of which $609,420,000 has been expended as of december 31, 2016. we are developing a 173,000 square foot class-a office building at 512 west 22nd street, along the western edge of the high line in the west chelsea submarket of manhattan (55.0% owned). the incremental development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $130,000,000, of which our share is $72,000,000. as of december 31, 2016, $30,143,000 has been expended, of which our share is $16,579,000. we are developing a 170,000 square foot office and retail building at 61 ninth avenue, located on the southwest corner of ninth avenue and 15th street in the west chelsea submarket of manhattan. in february 2016, the venture purchased an adjacent five story loft building and air rights in exchange for a 10% common and preferred equity interest in the venture valued at $19,400,000, which reduced our ownership interest to 45.1% from 50.1%. on december 21, 2016, the venture obtained a $90,000,000 construction loan. the loan matures in december 2020 with two six-month extension options. the interest rate is libor plus 3.05%. as of december 31, 2016, there was nothing drawn on this loan. the incremental development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $150,000,000, of which our share is $68,000,000. as of december 31, 2016, $38,499,000 has been expended, of which our share is $17,363,000. we are developing a 34,000 square foot office and retail building at 606 broadway, located on the northeast corner of broadway and houston street in manhattan (50.0% owned). at closing, the joint venture obtained a $65,000,000 construction loan, of which approximately $25,800,000 was outstanding as of december 31, 2016. the loan, which bears interest at libor plus 3.00% (3.66% at december 31, 2016), matures in may 2019 with two one-year extension options. the venture's incremental development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $60,000,000, of which our share is $30,000,000. as of december 31, 2016 , $20,833,000 has been expended, of which our share is $10,417,000. we are in the process of demolishing two adjacent washington, dc office properties, 1726 m street and 1150 17th street, and will replace them in the future with a new 335,000 square foot class a office building, to be addressed 1700 m street. the incremental development cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $170,000,000, of which $10,500,000 has been expended as of december 31, 2016. in september 2016, a joint venture between the related companies and vornado was designated by new york state to redevelop the historic farley post office building. the building will include a new moynihan train hall and approximately 850,000 rentable square feet of office space and ancillary train hall retail. the joint venture will enter into a 99-year, triple-net lease and make a $230,000,000 contribution towards the construction of the train hall. total costs for the redevelopment of the office and retail space are yet to be determined. we are also evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities at certain of our properties in manhattan, including, in particular, the penn plaza district. there can be no assurance that any of our development or redevelopment projects will commence, or if commenced, be completed, or completed on schedule or within budget. 9 segment data we operate in the following business segments: new york and washington, dc. financial information related to these business segments for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 is set forth in note 23 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the new york and washington, dc segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 . certain activities we do not base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in our portfolio may be sold when circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. while we may seek the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by vornado's board of trustees without the vote of our shareholders or operating partnership unitholders. employees as of december 31, 2016, we have approximately 4,225 employees, of which 284 are corporate staff. the new york segment has 3,265 employees, including 2,634 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york and washington, dc properties and 459 employees at the hotel pennsylvania. the washington, dc segment and themart properties have 456 and 220 employees, respectively. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k, and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial information, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. copies of our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon request. 10 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. we refer to the equity and debt securities of both vornado and the operating partnership as our securities and the investors who own shares or units, or both, as our equity holders. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see forward-looking statements contained herein on page 6. real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to various factors. the value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: global, national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; the development and/or redevelopment of our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; changes in space utilization by our tenants due to technology, economic conditions and business environment; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; inflation or deflation; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to obtain adequate insurance; changes in zoning laws and taxation; government regulation; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attacks against, the united states or individual acts of violence in public spaces including retail centers; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; natural disasters; general competitive factors; and climate changes. the rents or sales proceeds we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to equity holders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations as well as the value of our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy. demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide, as it did in 2008 and 2009 due to the economic downturn, bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets. the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our results of operations, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. 11 real estate is a competitive business. we compete with a large number of real estate property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. principal factors of competition are rents charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and the quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the global, national, regional and local economies, the financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation, population and employment trends. we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to equity holders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. during periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. in addition, changes in space utilization by our tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to equity holders could be adversely affected. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available to pay our indebtedness or make distributions to equity holders. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. our predecessor companies may be subject to similar liabilities for activities of those companies in the past. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. to date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. 12 in addition, we may become subject to costs or taxes, or increases therein, associated with natural resource or energy usage (such as a carbon tax ). these costs or taxes could increase our operating costs and decrease the cash available to pay our obligations or distribute to equity holders. we face risks associated with our tenants being designated prohibited persons by the office of foreign assets control and similar requirements. pursuant to executive order 13224 and other laws, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury ( ofac ) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned ( prohibited persons ) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the united states and thereby restricts our doing business with such persons. in addition, our leases, loans and other agreements may require us to comply with ofac and related requirements, and any failure to do so may result in a breach of such agreements . if a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the ofac list or is otherwise a party with whom we are prohibited from doing business, we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement. any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. the occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber security, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships or reputation, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. we face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons who access our systems from inside or outside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our it networks and related systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. our it networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing our building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving our it networks and related systems could disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our tenants; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or which could expose us to damage claims by third-parties for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space; require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of leases or other agreements; or damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally. any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 13 some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and per property, and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, with sub-limits for certain perils such as flood and earthquake. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $180,000,000 per occurrence and in the annual aggregate, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property. we maintain coverage for terrorism acts with limits of $4.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate, and $2.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate for terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) terrorism events, as defined by terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2015, which expires in december 2020. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a portion of all risk property and rental value insurance and a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for coverage for acts of terrorism including nbcr acts. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. for nbcr acts, ppic is responsible for a deductible of $1,622,000 ($1,976,000 for 2017) and 16% (17% for 2017) of the balance of a covered loss and the federal government is responsible for the remaining portion of a covered loss. we are ultimately responsible for any loss incurred by ppic. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. the americans with disabilities act ( ada ) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ada, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the ada, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to equity holders. our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. 14 our investments are concentrated currently in the new york city metropolitan area and washington, dc/northern virginia area and circumstances affecting these areas generally could adversely affect our business. upon completion of our proposed spin-off of our washington, dc segment, our business and investments will be less diversified and more concentrated in the new york city metropolitan area. a significant portion of our properties are located currently in the new york city/new jersey metropolitan area and washington, dc/northern virginia area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas. in 2016, approximately 91% of our ebitda, as adjusted, came from properties located in the new york city metropolitan area and the washington, dc/northern virginia area. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the united states or abroad. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the short or long term. declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. in addition to the factors affecting the national economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: financial performance and productivity of the media, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; with respect to our washington, dc segment, space needs of, and budgetary constraints affecting, the united states government, including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and repositioning under the defense base closure and realignment act of 2005, as amended; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; changes in the number of domestic and international tourists to our markets (including, as a result of changes in the relative strengths of world currencies); infrastructure quality; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. assuming we complete the spin-off of our washington, dc segment as expected, our real estate investments will be more concentrated in new york city and less diversified than prior to the spin-off. after giving effect to the spin-off and assuming it was completed as of january 1, 2016, 89% of our ebitda, as adjusted, came from properties located in the new york city metropolitan area. it is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability. terrorist attacks, such as those of september 11, 2001 in new york city and the washington, dc area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the new york, washington, dc, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. in response to a terrorist attack or the perceived threat of terrorism, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. natural disasters and the effects of climate change could have a concentrated impact on the areas where we operate and could adversely impact our results. our investments are concentrated in the new york, washington, dc, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. natural disasters, including earthquakes, storms and hurricanes, could impact our properties in these and other areas in which we operate. potentially adverse consequences of global warming could similarly have an impact on our properties. as a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or repair costs that may or may not be fully covered by insurance and to the risk of business interruption. the incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results. 15 we may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we may acquire, develop or redevelop real estate and acquire related companies and this may create risks. we may acquire, develop or redevelop properties or acquire real estate related companies when we believe doing so is consistent with our business strategy. we may not succeed in (i) developing, redeveloping or acquiring real estate and real estate related companies; (ii) completing these activities on time or within budget; and (iii) leasing or selling developed, redeveloped or acquired properties at amounts sufficient to cover our costs. competition in these activities could also significantly increase our costs. difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management's attention. acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. we may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred. furthermore, we may be exposed to the liabilities of properties or companies acquired, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our securities. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our securities. it may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar returns. as part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries with different risks than investing and operating real estate. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies that we may not control, including, but not limited to, alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ), toys r us, inc. ( toys ), lexington realty trust ( lexington ), urban edge properties ( ue ), pennsylvania real estate investment trust ( preit ), and other equity and loan investments. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from investing and operating real estate, including operating or managing toy stores. consequently, we are subject to operating and financial risks of those industries and to the risks associated with lack of control, such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing directly or indirectly with these partners or entities. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. we are subject to risks that affect the general and new york city retail environments. certain of our properties are manhattan street retail properties. as such, these properties are affected by the general and new york city retail environments, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, change in relative strengths of world currencies, the threat of terrorism, increasing competition from retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies and the impact of technological change upon the retail environment generally. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail locations, and in turn, adversely affect us. 16 our investment in toys has in the past and may in the future result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings. we carry our toys investment at zero. as a result, we no longer record our equity in toys' income or loss. because toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. the business of toys is highly seasonal and substantially all of toys net income is generated in its fourth quarter. it is possible that the value of toys may increase and we could again resume recording our equity in toys' income or loss, which would increase the seasonality and volatility of our reported earnings. our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. we evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period. if we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired. depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. this loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. we invest in marketable equity securities. the value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. we invest in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded companies, such as lexington. as of december 31, 2016, our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $203,704,000, at market. significant declines in the value of these investments due to, among other reasons, operating performance or economic or market conditions, may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off. although we believe that separating our washington, dc segment will provide benefits to us and our shareholders, the spin-off may not provide such results on the scope or scale we anticipate, and neither we nor jbg smith may realize the intended benefits of the spin-off. in addition, we will incur one-time costs in connection with the spin-off that may exceed our estimates and negate some of the benefits we expect to achieve. further, if the proposed spin-off is completed, our operational and financial profile will change upon the separation of the washington, dc segment from us. as a result, our diversification of revenue sources will diminish, and our results of operations, cash flows, working capital, and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility. 17 our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. this, in turn, requires the operating partnership to make distributions to its unitholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. we depend on dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred equity holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to us. substantially all of vornado's assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to its equity holders depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado's ability to pay dividends to its holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado. furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to the operating partnership's equity holders, including vornado. thus, vornado's ability to pay cash dividends to its equity holders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to its equity holders, including vornado. as of december 31, 2016, there were four series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado with a total liquidation value of $56,047,000. in addition, vornado's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred equity holders, are satisfied. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness that could affect our future operations. as of december 31, 2016, our consolidated mortgages and unsecured indebtedness, excluding related premium, discount and deferred financing costs, net, totaled $10.7 billion. we are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. our debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property. should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from such property is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value. 18 we have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. we rely on both secured and unsecured, variable rate and non-variable rate debt to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. in addition, the cost of our existing debt may increase, especially in the case of a rising interest rate environment, and we may not be able to refinance our existing debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. if the cost or amount of our indebtedness increases or we cannot refinance our debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we are at risk of credit ratings downgrades and default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured indebtedness and debt that we may obtain in the future may contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources or give possession of a secured property to the lender. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred shares could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common shares or any other securities. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading/redemption price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our equity holders. vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that vornado will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, vornado may fail to remain so qualified. qualifications are governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and depend on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, vornado fails to maintain its qualification as a reit and does not qualify under statutory relief provisions, vornado could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if vornado had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to equity holders and pay its indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and vornado would not be required to make distributions to shareholders in that taxable year and in future years until it was able to qualify as a reit. in addition, vornado would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless vornado were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. we face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. from time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. the shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends and distributions. 19 loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares and operating partnership class a units. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado. while we believe that we could find a replacement for him and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our securities. vornado's charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. vornado's amended and restated declaration of trust (the declaration of trust ) sets limits on the ownership of its shares. generally, for vornado to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado's taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado's declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by vornado's board of trustees. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of equity holders. the maryland general corporation law (the mgcl ) contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. the mgcl imposes conditions and restrictions on certain business combinations (including, among other transactions, a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance of equity securities) between a maryland reit and certain persons who beneficially own at least 10% of the corporation's stock (an interested shareholder ). unless approved in advance by the board of trustees of the trust, or otherwise exempted by the statute, such a business combination is prohibited for a period of five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. after such five-year period, a business combination with an interested shareholder must be: (a) recommended by the board of trustees of the trust, and (b) approved by the affirmative vote of at least (i) 80% of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote and (ii) two-thirds of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote which are not held by the interested shareholder with whom the business combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the trust's common shareholders receive a fair price (as defined by the statute) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for his or her shares. in approving a transaction, vornado's board of trustees may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of trustees. vornado's board of trustees has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between vornado and any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates. as a result, any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado that may not be in the best interest of our equity holders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. until 2019, vornado has a classified board of trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's board of trustees is divided currently into three classes of trustees. commencing this year, each class of trustees that is up for election will be elected for a one-year term with all trustees forming a single class elected annually commencing in 2019. historically trustees of each class have been chosen for three-year staggered terms. staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of vornado, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of our equity holders. 20 vornado may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado may issue. vornado's board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado, and therefore of the operating partnership, or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders, although vornado's board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado's declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders. we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our equity holders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization, dividends and distributions, are exclusively determined by vornado's board of trustees. accordingly, our equity holders do not control these policies. our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of vornado's other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2016, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners owned an aggregate of approximately 7.1% of the common shares of vornado and 26.3% of the common stock of alexander's, which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado, and therefore over the operating partnership, and on the outcome of any matters submitted to vornado's shareholders for approval. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander's currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. we manage and lease the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of annual base rent and percentage rent. see note 21 related party transactions to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. there may be conflicts of interest between alexander's and us. as of december 31, 2016, we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's. alexander's is a reit that has seven properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 2.3% that they indirectly own through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 26.3% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's as of december 31, 2016. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive office of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's and general partners of interstate properties. dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander's. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president finance and chief administrative officer, is the executive vice president and chief financial officer of alexander's, and stephen w. theriot, our chief financial officer, is the assistant treasurer of alexander's. 21 we manage, develop and lease alexander's properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from alexander's. see note 21 related party transactions to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of vornado's common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate. the trading price of vornado's common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of vornado's common shares and the redemption price of the operating partnership's class a units. among those factors are: our financial condition and performance; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; our dividend policy; the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reits; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional investor interest in us; the extent of short-selling of vornado common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for reits and other real estate related companies; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this annual report on the form 10-k. a significant decline in vornado's stock price could result in substantial losses for our equity holders. vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares and the redemption price of the operating partnership's units. the interests of equity holders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. as of december 31, 2016, vornado had authorized but unissued, 60,899,124 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 67,116,023 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 19,538,084 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 11,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that future sales of vornado's common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our securities. in addition, under maryland law, vornado's board of trustees has the authority to increase the number of authorized shares without shareholder approval. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. market interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. our exposure to a change in interest rates on our consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as follows: (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 2016 2015 weighted effect of 1% weighted december 31, average change in december 31, average balance interest rate base rates balance interest rate consolidated debt: variable rate $ 3,765,054 2.40% $ 37,651 $ 3,995,704 2.00% fixed rate 6,949,873 3.82% - 7,206,634 4.21% $ 10,714,927 3.32% 37,651 $ 11,202,338 3.42% pro rata share of debt of non-consolidated entities (non-recourse): variable rate excluding toys &quot;r&quot; us, inc. $ 1,109,376 2.49% 11,094 $ 485,160 1.97% variable rate toys &quot;r&quot; us, inc. 1,162,072 6.05% 11,621 1,164,893 6.61% fixed rate (including $671,181 and $661,513 of toys &quot;r&quot; us, inc. debt in 2016 and 2015) 2,791,249 6.09% - 2,782,025 6.37% $ 5,062,697 5.30% 22,715 $ 4,432,078 5.95% noncontrolling interests' share of consolidated subsidiaries (1,393) total change in annual net income attributable to the operating partnership 58,973 noncontrolling interests' share of the operating partnership (3,676) total change in annual net income attributable to vornado $ 55,297 total change in annual net income attributable to the operating partnership per diluted class a unit $ 0.29 total change in annual net income attributable to vornado per diluted share $ 0.29 we may utilize various financial instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings, including hedging strategies, depending on our analysis of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies. as of december 31, 2016, we have an interest rate swap on a $412,000,000 mortgage loan that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.65% (2.27% at december 31, 2016) to a fixed rate of 4.78% through march 2018 and an interest swap on a $375,000,000 mortgage loan on 888 seventh avenue that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.60% (2.22% at december 31, 2016) to a fixed rate of 3.15% through december 2020. in connection with the $700,000,000 refinancing of 770 broadway, we entered into an interest rate swap from libor plus 1.75% (2.40% at december 31, 2016) to a fixed rate of 2.56% through september 2020. fair value of debt the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt is calculated based on current market prices and discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt. as of december 31, 2016, the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt was $10,746,000,000. 94risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 6 part i item 1. business vornado is a fully integrated reit and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, the operating partnership, a delaware limited partnership. accordingly, vornado's cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the operating partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors. vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 93.5% of the common limited partnership interest in the operating partnership at december 31, 2017 . on july 17, 2017, we completed the spin-off of our washington, dc segment comprised of (i) 37 office properties totaling over 11.1 million square feet, five multifamily properties with 3,133 units and five other assets totaling approximately 406,000 square feet and (ii) 18 future development assets totaling over 10.4 million square feet of estimated potential development density, and (iii) $412.5 million of cash ( $275.0 million plus the bartlett financing proceeds less transaction costs and other mortgage items) to jbg smith properties ("jbgs"). on july 18, 2017, jbgs was combined with the management business and certain washington, dc assets of the jbg companies ( jbg ), a washington, dc real estate company. steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado, is the chairman of the board of trustees of jbgs. mitchell schear, former president of our washington, dc business, is a member of the board of trustees of jbgs. we are providing transition services to jbgs initially including information technology, financial reporting and payroll services. the spin-off was effected through a tax-free distribution by vornado to the holders of vornado common shares of all of the common shares of jbgs at the rate of one jbgs common share for every two common shares of vornado and the distribution by the operating partnership to the holders of its common units of all of the outstanding common units of jbg smith properties lp ( jbgslp ) at the rate of one jbgslp common unit for every two common units of vrlp held of record. see jbgs' amendment no. 3 on form 10 (file no. 1-37994) filed with the securities and exchange commission on june 9, 2017 for additional information. beginning in the third quarter of 2017, the historical financial results of our washington, dc segment are reflected in our consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented. we currently own all or portions of: new york: 20.3 million square feet of manhattan office in 36 properties; 2.7 million square feet of manhattan street retail in 71 properties; 2,009 units in twelve residential properties; the 1,700 room hotel pennsylvania located on seventh avenue at 33rd street in the heart of the penn plaza district; a 32.4% interest in alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ) (nyse: alx), which owns seven properties in the greater new york metropolitan area, including 731 lexington avenue, the 1.3 million square foot bloomberg, l.p. headquarters building; other real estate and related investments: the 3.7 million square foot themart in chicago; a 70% controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building office complex in san francisco's financial district aggregating 1.8 million square feet, known as the bank of america center; a 25.0% interest in vornado capital partners, our real estate fund (the "fund"). we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund; a 32.5% interest in toys r us, inc. ( toys ), which is in chapter 11 bankruptcy and carried at zero in our consolidated balance sheets; and other real estate and other investments. 7 objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize vornado shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and execute our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit; investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation; acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents; investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the new york city metropolitan area; developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value; and investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component. we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the future. acquisitions we completed the following acquisition during 2017: $230.0 million upfront contribution for the acquisition of a 99-year leasehold of farley post office (50.1% interest) dispositions we completed the following sale transactions during 2017: $6.0 billion spin-off of our washington, dc segment on july 17, 2017; $155.0 million sale of property comprising the suffolk downs racetrack in east boston, massachusetts (21.2% interest); $148.0 million sale of 800 corporate pointe in culver city, ca (25% interest); $23.9 million sale of investments by india property fund (36.5% interest); $18.7 million sale of our 25% interest in tcg urban infrastructure holdings private limited, which substantially completes our sale of our investments in india; and we received $50.0 million representing our interest in the $150.0 million mezzanine loan owned by a joint venture in which we had a 33.3% ownership interest. financings we completed the following financing transactions during 2017: $1.25 billion revolving credit facility extended to january 2022 with two six-month extension options, lowering the interest rate from libor plus 105 basis points to libor plus 100 basis points. $1.2 billion refinancing of 280 park avenue (50% interest); $500 million refinancing of the office portion of 731 lexington (32.4% interest); $500 million refinancing of 330 madison (25% interest); $450 million public offering of 3.5% 7-year senior unsecured notes; $450 million redemption of 2.5% senior unsecured notes; $320 million issuance of 5.25% series m cumulative redeemable preferred shares and $470 million redemption of 6.625% series g and 6.625% series i cumulative redeemable preferred shares in january 2018; $271 million loan facility for the moynihan office building (50.1% interest); $220 million financing of the bartlett (included in the spin-off of our washington, dc segment); $100 million loan facility for the refinancing of lincoln road (25% interest); $44 million repayment of 1700 and 1730 m street (included in the spin-off of our washington, dc segment); and $20 million refinancing of 50 west 57th street (50% interest). 8 development and redevelopment expenditures we are constructing a residential condominium tower containing 397,000 salable square feet at 220 central park south. the development cost of this project (exclusive of land cost of $515 million) is estimated to be approximately $1.4 billion, of which $890 million has been expended as of december 31, 2017. we are developing a 173,000 square foot class a office building, located along the western edge of the high line at 512 west 22nd street in the west chelsea submarket of manhattan (55.0% interest). the development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $130,000,000, of which our share is $72,000,000. as of december 31, 2017, $73,890,000 has been expended, of which our share is $40,640,000. we are developing a 170,000 square foot office and retail building at 61 ninth avenue, located on the southwest corner of ninth avenue and 15th street in the west chelsea submarket of manhattan (45.1% interest). the development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $152,000,000, of which our share is $69,000,000. as of december 31, 2017, $105,281,000 has been expended, of which our share is $47,482,000. we are developing a 34,000 square foot office and retail building at 606 broadway, located on the northeast corner of broadway and houston street in manhattan (50.0% interest). the venture's development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $60,000,000, of which our share is $30,000,000. as of december 31, 2017, $34,189,000 has been expended, of which our share is $17,095,000. a joint venture in which we have a 50.1% ownership interest is redeveloping the historic farley post office building which will include a new moynihan train hall and approximately 850,000 rentable square feet of commercial space, comprised of approximately 730,000 square feet of office space and approximately 120,000 square feet of retail space. as of december 31, 2017, $271,641,000 has been expended, of which our share is $136,092,000. the joint venture has also entered into a development agreement with empire state development ( esd ) and a design-build contract with skanska moynihan train hall builders. under the development agreement with esd, the joint venture is obligated to build the moynihan train hall, with vornado and related companies ("related") each guaranteeing the joint venture's obligations. under the design-build agreement, skanska moynihan train hall builders is obligated to fulfill all of the joint venture's obligations. the obligations of skanska moynihan train hall builders have been bonded by skanska usa and bear a full guaranty from skanska ab. we are redeveloping a 64,000 square foot class a office building at 345 montgomery street, a part of our 555 california street complex in san francisco (70.0% interest) located at the corner of california and pine street. the development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $46,000,000, of which our share is $32,000,000. as of december 31, 2017, $2,720,000 has been expended, of which our share is $1,904,000. we are also evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities at certain of our properties in manhattan, including, in particular, the penn plaza district. there can be no assurance that any of our development or redevelopment projects will commence, or if commenced, be completed, or completed on schedule or within budget. 9 segment data we operate in the following reportable segments: new york and other. financial information related to these reportable segments for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 is set forth in note 23 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the new york segment has historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . certain activities we do not base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in our portfolio may be sold when circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by vornado's board of trustees without the vote of our shareholders or operating partnership unitholders. employees as of december 31, 2017 , we have approximately 3,989 employees, of which 290 are corporate staff. the new york segment has 3,551 employees, including 2,788 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york properties and our former washington, dc properties and 449 employees at the hotel pennsylvania. themart has 148 employees. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k, and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial information, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. copies of our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon request. 10 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. we refer to the equity and debt securities of both vornado and the operating partnership as our securities and the investors who own shares of vornado or units of the operating partnership, or both, as our equity holders. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. see forward-looking statements contained herein on page 6. our investments are concentrated currently in the new york city metropolitan area and circumstances affecting this area generally could materially and adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our properties are located currently in the new york city/new jersey metropolitan area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to this area. in 2017 , approximately 89 % of our net operating income ("noi", a non-gaap measure) came from properties located in the new york city metropolitan area. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions and development in this area. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact this market in either the short or long term. declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in the new york city metropolitan area could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. in addition to the factors affecting the national economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in this region include: financial performance and productivity of the media, advertising, professional services, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; changes in the number of domestic and international tourists to our markets (including, as a result of changes in the relative strengths of world currencies); infrastructure quality; changes in the treatment of the deductibility of state and local taxes; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. it is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability. we are subject to risks that affect the general and new york city retail environments. certain of our properties are manhattan street retail properties. as such, these properties are affected by the general and new york city retail environments, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, change in relative strengths of world currencies, the threat of terrorism, increasing competition from retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies and the impact of technological change upon the retail environment generally. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail locations. terrorist attacks, such as those of september 11, 2001 in new york city, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the new york, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. in response to a terrorist attack or the perceived threat of terrorism, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. furthermore, we may experience increased costs in security, equipment and personnel. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. 11 natural disasters and the effects of climate change could have a concentrated impact on the areas where we operate and could adversely impact our results. our investments are concentrated in the new york, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. natural disasters, including earthquakes, storms and hurricanes, could impact our properties in these and other areas in which we operate. potentially adverse consequences of global warming could similarly have an impact on our properties. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy at our properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our properties against such risks. the incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results. real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to various factors. the value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: global, national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; the development and/or redevelopment of our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; changes in consumer preferences adversely affecting retailers and retail store values; changes in space utilization by our tenants due to technology, economic conditions and business environment; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; inflation or deflation; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to obtain adequate insurance; changes in zoning laws and taxation; government regulation; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attacks against, the united states or individual acts of violence in public spaces including retail centers; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; natural disasters; general competitive factors; and climate changes. the rents or sales proceeds we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to equity holders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations as well as the value of an investment in our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy. demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide, as it did in 2008 and 2009 due to the economic downturn, bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets. the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our results of operations, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. 12 our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. u.s. federal tax reform legislation now and in the future could affect reits generally, the geographic markets in which we operate, the trading of our shares and our results of operations, both positively and negatively, in ways that are difficult to anticipate. the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 act ) represents sweeping tax reform legislation that makes significant changes to corporate and individual tax rates and the calculation of taxes, as well as international tax rules. as a reit, we are generally not required to pay federal taxes otherwise applicable to regular corporations if we comply with the various tax regulations governing reits. shareholders, however, are generally required to pay taxes on reit dividends. the 2017 act and future tax reform legislation could impact our share price or how shareholders and potential investors view an investment in reits. for example, the decrease in corporate tax rates in the 2017 act could decrease the attractiveness of the reit structure relative to companies that are not organized as reits. in addition, while certain elements of the 2017 act do not impact us directly as a reit, they could impact the geographic markets in which we operate as well as our tenants in ways, both positive and negative, that are difficult to anticipate. for example, the limitation in the 2017 act on the deductibility of certain state and local taxes may make operating in jurisdictions that impose such taxes at higher rates less desirable than operating in jurisdictions imposing such taxes at lower rates. the overall impact of the 2017 act also depends on the future interpretations and regulations that may be issued by u.s. tax authorities, and it is possible that future guidance could adversely impact us. real estate is a competitive business. we compete with a large number of real estate property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. principal factors of competition are rents charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and the quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the global, national, regional and local economies, the financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation, population and employment trends. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we may acquire properties when we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors which may adversely affect us by causing us the inability to acquire a desired property or cause an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property. if we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. in addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to equity holders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal and other costs. during periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. in addition, changes in space utilization by our tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we 13 incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to equity holders could be adversely affected. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available to pay our indebtedness or make distributions to equity holders. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may also impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. our predecessor companies may be subject to similar liabilities for activities of those companies in the past. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. to date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. in addition, we may become subject to costs or taxes, or increases therein, associated with natural resource or energy usage (such as a carbon tax ). these costs or taxes could increase our operating costs and decrease the cash available to pay our obligations or distribute to equity holders. we face risks associated with our tenants being designated prohibited persons by the office of foreign assets control and similar requirements. pursuant to executive order 13224 and other laws, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury ( ofac ) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned ( prohibited persons ) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the united states and thereby restricts our doing business with such persons. in addition, our leases, loans and other agreements may require us to comply with ofac and related requirements, and any failure to do so may result in a breach of such agreements. if a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the ofac list or is otherwise a party with whom we are prohibited from doing business, we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement. any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. 14 the occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber security, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships or reputation, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. we face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons who access our systems from inside or outside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our it networks and related systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. our it networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing our building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving our it networks and related systems could disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our tenants; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or which could expose us to damage claims by third-parties for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space; require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of leases or other agreements; or damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally. any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and per property, and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, with sub-limits for certain perils such as flood and earthquake. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $180,000,000 per occurrence and in the aggregate, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property. we maintain coverage for terrorism acts with limits of $4.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate, and $2.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate for terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) terrorism events, as defined by terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2015, which expires in december 2020. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a portion of all risk property and rental value insurance and a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for coverage for acts of terrorism including nbcr acts. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. for nbcr acts, ppic is responsible for a deductible of $1,976,000 ($1,601,000 for 2018) and 17% (18% for 2018) of the balance of a covered loss and the federal government is responsible for the remaining portion of a covered loss. we are ultimately responsible for any loss incurred by ppic. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future. we are responsible for deductibles and losses in excess of our insurance coverage, which could be material. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio. 15 compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. the americans with disabilities act ( ada ) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ada, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the ada, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to equity holders. our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. changes in the method pursuant to which the libor rates are determined and potential phasing out of libor after 2021 may affect our financial results. the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority ("fca"), which regulates libor, has recently announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the united kingdom or elsewhere. furthermore, in the united states, efforts to identify a set of alternative u.s. dollar reference interest rates include proposals by the alternative reference rates committee of the federal reserve board and the federal reserve bank of new york. on august 24, 2017, the federal reserve board requested public comment on a proposal by the federal reserve bank of new york, in cooperation with the office of financial research, to produce three new reference rates intended to serve as alternatives to libor. these alternative rates are based on overnight repurchase agreement transactions secured by u.s. treasury securities. the federal reserve bank said that the publication of these alternative rates is targeted to commence by mid-2018. any changes announced by the fca, including the fca announcement, other regulators or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method pursuant to which the libor rates are determined may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the reported libor rates. if that were to occur, the level of interest payments we incur may change. in addition, although certain of our libor based obligations provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate payable on certain of our obligations if libor is not reported, which include requesting certain rates from major reference banks in london or new york, or alternatively using libor for the immediately preceding interest period or using the initial interest rate, as applicable, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with the interest rates and/or payments that would have been made on our obligations if libor rate was available in its current form. we may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we may acquire, develop or redevelop real estate and acquire related companies and this may create risks. we may acquire, develop or redevelop properties or acquire real estate related companies when we believe doing so is consistent with our business strategy. we may not succeed in (i) developing, redeveloping or acquiring real estate and real estate related companies; (ii) completing these activities on time or within budget; or (iii) leasing or selling developed, redeveloped or acquired properties at amounts sufficient to cover our costs. competition in these activities could also significantly increase our costs. difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management's attention. acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. we may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred. furthermore, we may be exposed to the liabilities of properties or companies acquired, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. 16 from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our securities. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our securities. it may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar returns. as part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries with different risks than investing and operating real estate. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies that we may not control, including, but not limited to, alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ), toys r us, inc. ( toys ), urban edge properties ( ue ), pennsylvania real estate investment trust ( preit ), and other equity and loan investments. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from investing and operating real estate, including operating or managing toy stores. consequently, we are subject to operating and financial risks of those industries and to the risks associated with lack of control, such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing directly or indirectly with these partners or entities. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. our investment in toys has in the past and may in the future result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings. we carry our toys investment at zero. as a result, we no longer record our equity in toys' income or loss. because toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. the business of toys is highly seasonal and substantially all of toys net income is generated in its fourth quarter. it is possible that the value of toys may increase and we could again resume recording our equity in toys' income or loss, which would increase the seasonality and volatility of our reported earnings. our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. we evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period. if we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired. depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. this loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. we invest in marketable equity securities. the value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. we invest in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded companies, such as lexington realty trust. as of december 31, 2017 , our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $182,752,000, at market. significant declines in the value of these 17 investments due to, among other reasons, operating performance or economic or market conditions, may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material. our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. this, in turn, requires the operating partnership to make distributions to its unitholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. we depend on dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred equity holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to us. substantially all of vornado's assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to its equity holders depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado's ability to pay dividends to its holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado. furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to the operating partnership's equity holders, including vornado. thus, vornado's ability to pay cash dividends to its equity holders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to its equity holders, including vornado. as of december 31, 2017 , there were four series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado with a total liquidation value of $56,010,000. in addition, vornado's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred equity holders, are satisfied. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness that could affect our future operations. as of december 31, 2017 , our consolidated mortgages and unsecured indebtedness, excluding related premium, discount and deferred financing costs, net, totaled $9.8 billion. we are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. our debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property. should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from such property is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value. we have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. we rely on both secured and unsecured, variable rate and non-variable rate debt to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. in addition, the cost of our existing debt may increase, especially in the case of a rising interest rate environment, and we may not be able to refinance our existing debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable 18 terms. if the cost or amount of our indebtedness increases or we cannot refinance our debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we are at risk of credit ratings downgrades and default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured indebtedness and debt that we may obtain in the future may contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources or give possession of a secured property to the lender. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred shares could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common shares or any other securities. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading/redemption price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our equity holders. vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that vornado will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, vornado may fail to remain so qualified. qualifications are governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and depend on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, vornado fails to maintain its qualification as a reit and does not qualify under statutory relief provisions, vornado could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if vornado had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to equity holders and pay its indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and vornado would not be required to make distributions to shareholders in that taxable year and in future years until it was able to qualify as a reit and did so. in addition, vornado would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless vornado were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. we face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. from time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. the shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends and distributions. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares and operating partnership class a units. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado. while we believe that we could find a replacement for him and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our securities. 19 vornado's charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. vornado's amended and restated declaration of trust (the declaration of trust ) sets limits on the ownership of its shares. generally, for vornado to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado's taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado's declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by vornado's board of trustees. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of equity holders. the maryland general corporation law (the mgcl ) contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. the mgcl imposes conditions and restrictions on certain business combinations (including, among other transactions, a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance of equity securities) between a maryland reit and certain persons who beneficially own at least 10% of the corporation's stock (an interested shareholder ). unless approved in advance by the board of trustees of the trust, or otherwise exempted by the statute, such a business combination is prohibited for a period of five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. after such five-year period, a business combination with an interested shareholder must be: (a) recommended by the board of trustees of the trust, and (b) approved by the affirmative vote of at least (i) 80% of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote and (ii) two-thirds of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote which are not held by the interested shareholder with whom the business combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the trust's common shareholders receive a fair price (as defined by the statute) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for his or her shares. in approving a transaction, vornado's board of trustees may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of trustees. vornado's board of trustees has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between vornado and any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates. as a result, any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado that may not be in the best interest of our equity holders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. vornado may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado may issue. vornado's board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado, and therefore of the operating partnership, or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders, although vornado's board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado's declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders. we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our equity holders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization, dividends and distributions, are exclusively determined by vornado's board of trustees. accordingly, our equity holders do not control these policies. 20 our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of vornado's other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2017, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners owned an aggregate of approximately 7.2% of the common shares of vornado and 26.2% of the common stock of alexander's, which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado, and therefore over the operating partnership. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander's currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. we manage and lease the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of annual base rent and percentage rent. see note 21 related party transactions to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. there may be conflicts of interest between alexander's and us. as of december 31, 2017 , we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's. alexander's is a reit that has seven properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 2.3% that they indirectly own through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 26.2% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's as of december 31, 2017 . mr. roth is the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's and general partners of interstate properties. dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander's. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president chief financial officer and chief administrative officer, is the treasurer of alexander's and matthew iocco, our executive vice president chief accounting officer, is the chief financial officer of alexander's. we manage, develop and lease alexander's properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from alexander's. see note 21 related party transactions to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of vornado's common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate. the trading price of vornado's common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of vornado's common shares and the redemption price of the operating partnership's class a units. among those factors are: our financial condition and performance; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; our dividend policy; 21 the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reits; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional investor interest in us; the extent of short-selling of vornado common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for reits and other real estate related companies; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; changes in tax laws and rules; and all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. a significant decline in vornado's stock price could result in substantial losses for our equity holders. vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares and the redemption price of the operating partnership's units. the interests of equity holders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. as of december 31, 2017 , vornado had authorized but unissued, 60,016,142 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 72,116,023 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 19,666,004 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 11,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that future sales of vornado's common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our securities. in addition, under maryland law, vornado's board of trustees has the authority to increase the number of authorized shares without shareholder approval. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. market interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. our exposure to a change in interest rates on our consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as follows: (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 2017 2016 december 31, balance weighted average interest rate effect of 1% change in base rates december 31, balance weighted average interest rate consolidated debt: variable rate $ 3,492,133 3.19% $ 34,921 $ 3,217,763 2.45% fixed rate 6,311,706 3.72% 6,329,547 3.65% $ 9,803,839 3.53% 34,921 $ 9,547,310 3.25% pro rata share of debt of non-consolidated entities (non-recourse): variable rate excluding toys "r" us, inc. $ 1,395,001 3.24% 13,950 $ 1,092,326 2.50% variable rate toys "r" us, inc. 1,269,522 8.20% 12,695 1,162,072 6.05% fixed rate - excluding toys "r" us, inc. 2,035,888 4.89% 1,969,918 5.15% fixed rate - toys "r" us, inc. 587,865 10.31% 671,181 9.42% $ 5,288,276 5.85% 26,645 $ 4,895,497 5.36% noncontrolling interests' share of consolidated subsidiaries (1,456 ) total change in annual net income attributable to the operating partnership 60,110 noncontrolling interests' share of the operating partnership (3,727 ) total change in annual net income attributable to vornado $ 56,383 total change in annual net income attributable to the operating partnership per diluted class a unit $ 0.30 total change in annual net income attributable to vornado per diluted share $ 0.29 we may utilize various financial instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings, including hedging strategies, depending on our analysis of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies. as of december 31, 2017 , we have an interest rate swap on a $407,000,000 mortgage loan on two penn plaza that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.65% (3.01% as of december 31, 2017 ) to a fixed rate of 4.78% through march 2018, an interest rate swap on a $375,000,000 mortgage loan on 888 seventh avenue that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.60% (2.96% as of december 31, 2017 ) to a fixed rate of 3.15% through december 2020 and an interest rate swap on a $700,000,000 mortgage loan on 770 broadway that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.75% (3.15% as of december 31, 2017 ) to a fixed rate of 2.56% through september 2020. fair value of debt the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt is calculated based on current market prices and discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt. as of december 31, 2017 , the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt was $9,822,000,000. 93risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 6 part i item 1. business vornado is a fully integrated reit and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, the operating partnership, a delaware limited partnership. accordingly, vornado's cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the operating partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors. vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 93.4% of the common limited partnership interest in the operating partnership as of december 31, 2018 . we currently own all or portions of: new york: 19.9 million square feet of manhattan office in 36 properties; 2.6 million square feet of manhattan street retail in 71 properties; 1,999 units in eleven residential properties; the 1,700 room hotel pennsylvania located on seventh avenue at 33rd street in the heart of the penn district; and a 32.4% interest in alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ) (nyse: alx), which owns seven properties in the greater new york metropolitan area, including 731 lexington avenue, the 1.3 million square foot bloomberg, l.p. headquarters building. other real estate and related investments: the 3.7 million square foot themart in chicago; a 70% controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building office complex in san francisco's financial district aggregating 1.8 million square feet, known as the bank of america center; a 25.0% interest in vornado capital partners, our real estate fund (the "fund"). we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund; and other real estate and other investments. objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize vornado shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and to execute our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit; investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation; acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents; investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the new york city metropolitan area; developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value; and investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component. we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the future. 7 acquisitions we completed the following acquisitions during 2018 : $442 million acquisition of the retail condominium at 1535 broadway; $44 million acquisition of 537 west 26th street and 55,000 square feet of additional zoning air rights; and $42 million purchase price to increase our ownership interest in the joint venture that is developing the farley office and retail building to 95.0% from 50.1%. dispositions we completed the following sale transactions during 2018 : $120 million sale of our 49.5% interests in the 666 fifth office condominium. concurrently with the sale of our interests, the existing mortgage loan on the property was repaid and we received net proceeds of $55.2 million for the participation we held in the mortgage loan; $82 million sale of the retail condominium at 11 east 68th street by the fund (25% interest); and $45 million sale of 27 washington square north. 220 central park south we completed the following sale transactions during 2018 : $215 million net proceeds from the sale of 11 condominium units. financings we completed the following financing transactions during 2018 : $750 million unsecured term loan extended to february 2024, lowering the interest rate from libor plus 1.15% to libor plus 1.00%; $675 million refinancing of independence plaza ($338 million at our 50.1% interest); $470 million redemption of all of the outstanding 6.625% series g and series i cumulative redeemable preferred shares/units; $255 million refinancing of the crowne plaza times square hotel ($84 million at our 32.9% interest); $205 million refinancing of 150 west 34th street and $105 million investment in a participation in the refinanced loan; $120 million refinancing of 4 union square south; and $100 million refinancing of 33-00 northern boulevard (center building). 8 development and redevelopment expenditures we are constructing a residential condominium tower containing 397,000 salable square feet at 220 central park south ("220 cps"). the development cost of this project (exclusive of land cost of $515.4 million) is estimated to be approximately $1.4 billion, of which $1.2 billion has been expended as of december 31, 2018. we are developing a 173,000 square foot class a office building, located along the western edge of the high line at 512 west 22nd street in the west chelsea submarket of manhattan (55.0% interest). the development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $130,000,000, of which our share is $72,000,000. as of december 31, 2018, $95,464,000 has been expended, of which our share is $52,505,000. we are developing a 34,000 square foot office and retail building at 606 broadway, located on the northeast corner of broadway and houston street in manhattan (50.0% interest). the development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $60,000,000, of which our share is $30,000,000. as of december 31, 2018, $51,202,000 has been expended, of which our share is $25,601,000. we are redeveloping a 78,000 square foot class a office building at 345 montgomery street, a part of our 555 california street complex in san francisco (70.0% interest) located at the corner of california and pine street. the development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $46,000,000, of which our share is $32,000,000. as of december 31, 2018, $21,834,000 has been expended, of which our share is $15,284,000. we are redeveloping a 165,000 square foot office building at 825 seventh avenue, located at the corner of 53rd street and seventh avenue (50.0% interest). the redevelopment cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $30,000,000, of which our share is $15,000,000. as of december 31, 2018, $8,967,000 has been expended, of which our share is $4,484,000. we are redeveloping penn1, a 2,545,000 square foot office building located on 34th street between seventh and eighth avenue. the development cost of this project is estimated to be over $200,000,000, of which $9,725,000 has been expended as of december 31, 2018. we are in the planning phase to redevelop penn2, a 1,634,000 square foot office building located on the west side of 7th avenue between 31st and 33rd street. we are also evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities at certain of our properties in manhattan, including, in particular, the penn district. 9 development and redevelopment expenditures - continued farley office and retail building and moynihan train hall our 95.0% joint venture (the remaining 5.0% is owned by the related companies "related") is developing the farley office and retail building (the "project"), which will include approximately 850,000 rentable square feet of commercial space, comprised of approximately 730,000 square feet of office space and approximately 120,000 square feet of retail space. the total development cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $800,000,000 (exclusive of a $230,000,000 upfront contribution and net of anticipated historic tax credits). as of december 31, 2018, $144,491,000 has been expended. the joint venture has entered into a development agreement with empire state development ( esd ), an entity of new york state, to build the adjacent moynihan train hall, with vornado and related each guaranteeing the joint venture's obligations. the joint venture has entered into a design-build contract with skanska moynihan train hall builders pursuant to which they will build the moynihan train hall, thereby fulfilling all of the joint venture's obligations to esd. the obligations of skanska moynihan train hall builders have been bonded by skanska usa and bear a full guaranty from skanska ab. the development expenditures for the moynihan train hall are estimated to be approximately $1.6 billion, which will be funded by governmental agencies. pursuant to accounting standards codification 840-40-55, the joint venture, which we consolidate on our consolidated balance sheets, is required to recognize all development expenditures for the moynihan train hall. accordingly, the development expenditures paid for by governmental agencies through december 31, 2018 of $445,693,000 are shown as moynihan train hall development expenditures with a corresponding obligation recorded in moynihan train hall obligation on our consolidated balance sheets. upon completion of the development, the "moynihan train hall development expenditures" and the offsetting moynihan train hall obligation will be removed from our consolidated balance sheets. there can be no assurance that any of our development or redevelopment projects will commence, or if commenced, be completed, or completed on schedule or within budget. 10 segment data we operate in the following reportable segments: new york and other. financial information related to these reportable segments for the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 is set forth in note 25 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the new york segment has historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . certain activities we do not base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in our portfolio may be sold when circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by vornado's board of trustees without the vote of our shareholders or operating partnership unitholders. employees as of december 31, 2018 , we have approximately 3,928 employees, of which 275 are corporate staff. the new york segment has 3,476 employees, including 2,838 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york properties and 460 employees at the hotel pennsylvania. themart has 177 employees. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k, and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial information, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. copies of our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon request. 11 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. we refer to the equity and debt securities of both vornado and the operating partnership as our securities and the investors who own shares of vornado or units of the operating partnership, or both, as our equity holders. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. see forward-looking statements contained herein on page 6. our investments are concentrated in the new york city metropolitan area and circumstances affecting this area generally could materially and adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our properties are located in the new york city metropolitan area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to this area. in 2018 , approximately 89% of our net operating income ("noi", a non-gaap measure) came from properties located in the new york city metropolitan area. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions and development in this area. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact this market in either the short or long term. declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in the new york city metropolitan area could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. in addition to the factors affecting the national economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in this region include: financial performance and productivity of the media, advertising, professional services, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; changes in the number of domestic and international tourists to our markets (including, as a result of changes in the relative strengths of world currencies); infrastructure quality; changes in rates or the treatment of the deductibility of state and local taxes; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. it is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. local, national or global economic downturns could negatively affect our businesses and profitability. we are subject to risks that affect the general and new york city retail environments. certain of our properties are manhattan street retail properties. as such, these properties are affected by the general and new york city retail environments, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, change in relative strengths of world currencies, the threat of terrorism, increasing competition from retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies and the impact of technological change upon the retail environment generally. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants, or result in the bankruptcy of such tenants, and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail locations. terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including principally new york city, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. in response to a terrorist attack or the perceived threat of terrorism, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. furthermore, we may experience increased costs in security, equipment and personnel. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. 12 natural disasters and the effects of climate change could have a concentrated impact on the areas where we operate and could adversely impact our results. our investments are concentrated in the new york, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. natural disasters, including earthquakes, storms, tornados, floods and hurricanes, could impact our properties in these and other areas in which we operate. potentially adverse consequences of global warming, including rising sea levels, could similarly have an impact on our properties. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy at our properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our properties against such risks. the incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results. real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to various factors. the value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: global, national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; the development and/or redevelopment of our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; changes in consumer preferences adversely affecting retailers and retail store values; changes in space utilization by our tenants due to technology, economic conditions and business environment; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; trends in office real estate; the impact on our retail tenants and demand for retail space at our properties due to increased competition from online shopping; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; inflation or deflation; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to obtain adequate insurance; changes in zoning laws and taxation; government regulation; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attacks against, the united states or individual acts of violence in public spaces including retail centers; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; natural disasters; general competitive factors; and climate changes. the rents or sales proceeds we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to equity holders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. 13 capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations as well as the value of an investment in our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy. demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide due to an economic downturn, bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets. the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our results of operations, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. u.s. federal tax reform legislation now and in the future could affect reits generally, the geographic markets in which we operate, the trading of our shares and our results of operations, both positively and negatively, in ways that are difficult to anticipate. the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 act ) represented sweeping tax reform legislation that made significant changes to corporate and individual tax rates and the calculation of taxes, as well as international tax rules. as a reit, we are generally not required to pay federal taxes otherwise applicable to regular corporations if we comply with the various tax regulations governing reits. shareholders, however, are generally required to pay taxes on reit dividends. the 2017 act and future tax reform legislation could impact our share price or how shareholders and potential investors view an investment in reits. for example, the decrease in corporate tax rates in the 2017 act could decrease the attractiveness of the reit structure relative to companies that are not organized as reits. in addition, while certain elements of the 2017 act do not impact us directly as a reit, they could impact the geographic markets in which we operate as well as our tenants in ways, both positive and negative, that are difficult to anticipate. for example, the limitation in the 2017 act on the deductibility of certain state and local taxes may make operating in jurisdictions that impose such taxes at higher rates less desirable than operating in jurisdictions imposing such taxes at lower rates. the overall impact of the 2017 act also depends on the future interpretations and regulations that may be issued by u.s. tax authorities, and it is possible that future guidance could adversely impact us. real estate is a competitive business. we compete with a large number of real estate property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. principal factors of competition are rents charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and the quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the global, national, regional and local economies, the financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation, population and employment trends. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we may acquire properties when we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors which may adversely affect us by causing us the inability to acquire a desired property or cause an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property. if we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. in addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to equity holders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal and other costs. during periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent, become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, all of which can result in an increase in vacancy rates and lower income and funds available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to our equity investors. 14 we may be adversely affected by trends in office real estate. telecommuting, flexible work schedules, open workplaces and teleconferencing are becoming more common. these practices enable businesses to reduce their office space requirements. there is also an increasing trend among some businesses to utilize shared office spaces and co-working spaces. a continuation of the movement towards these practices could, over time, erode the overall demand for office space and, in turn, place downward pressure on occupancy, rental rates and property valuations. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. in addition, changes in space utilization by our tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to equity holders could be adversely affected. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available to pay our indebtedness or make distributions to equity holders. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may also impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. our predecessor companies may be subject to similar liabilities for activities of those companies in the past. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. to date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. in addition, we may become subject to costs or taxes, or increases therein, associated with natural resource or energy usage (such as a carbon tax ). these costs or taxes could increase our operating costs and decrease the cash available to pay our obligations or distribute to equity holders. 15 we face risks associated with our tenants being designated prohibited persons by the office of foreign assets control and similar requirements. pursuant to executive order 13224 and other laws, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury ( ofac ) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned ( prohibited persons ) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the united states and thereby restricts our doing business with such persons. in addition, our leases, loans and other agreements may require us to comply with ofac and related requirements, and any failure to do so may result in a breach of such agreements. if a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the ofac list or is otherwise a party with whom we are prohibited from doing business, we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement or face other penalties. any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. the occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber security, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships or reputation, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. we face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons who access our systems from inside or outside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our it networks and related systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. although we have not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, we have experienced cyber attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures that we have put in place. our it networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing our building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. unauthorized parties, whether within or outside our company, may disrupt or gain access to our systems, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through human error, misfeasance, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceit, including break-ins, use of stolen credentials, social engineering, phishing, computer viruses or other malicious codes, and similar means of unauthorized and destructive tampering. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving our it networks and related systems could disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our tenants; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or which could expose us to damage claims by third-parties for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space; require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; subject us to litigation claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, fines, penalties, governmental investigations and enforcement actions or termination of leases or other agreements; or damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally. any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. a cyber attack could interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting requirements, which could adversely affect us. a cyber attack could also compromise the confidential information of our employees, tenants, customers and vendors. a successful attack could disrupt and materially affect our business operations, including damaging relationships with tenants, customers and vendors. any compromise of our information security systems could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal 16 and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information (which may be confidential, proprietary and/or commercially sensitive in nature) and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and per property, and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, with sub-limits for certain perils such as flood and earthquake. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $260,000,000 per occurrence and in the aggregate, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property. we maintain coverage for terrorism acts with limits of $4.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate, and $2.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate for terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) terrorism events, as defined by terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2015, which expires in december 2020. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a portion of all risk property and rental value insurance and a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for coverage for acts of terrorism including nbcr acts. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. for nbcr acts, ppic is responsible for a deductible of $1,453,000 and 19% of the balance of a covered loss and the federal government is responsible for the remaining portion of a covered loss. we are ultimately responsible for any loss incurred by ppic. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism and other events. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future. we are responsible for uninsured losses and for deductibles and losses in excess of our insurance coverage, which could be material. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance or refinance our properties and expand our portfolio. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act ("ada") or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. ada generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ada, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the ada, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to equity holders. our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. 17 changes in the method pursuant to which the libor rates are determined and potential phasing out of libor after 2021 may affect our financial results. the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority ("fca"), which regulates libor, has recently announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the united kingdom or elsewhere. furthermore, in the united states, efforts to identify a set of alternative u.s. dollar reference interest rates include proposals by the alternative reference rates committee of the federal reserve board and the federal reserve bank of new york. on august 24, 2017, the federal reserve board requested public comment on a proposal by the federal reserve bank of new york, in cooperation with the office of financial research, to produce three new reference rates intended to serve as alternatives to libor. these alternative rates are based on overnight repurchase agreement transactions secured by u.s. treasury securities. any changes announced by the fca, other regulators or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method pursuant to which the libor rates are determined may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the reported libor rates. if that were to occur, the level of interest payments we incur may change. in addition, although certain of our libor based obligations provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate payable on certain of our obligations if libor is not reported, which include requesting certain rates from major reference banks in london or new york, or alternatively using libor for the immediately preceding interest period or using the initial interest rate, as applicable, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with the interest rates and/or payments that would have been made on our obligations if libor rate was available in its current form. we may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we may acquire, develop or redevelop real estate and acquire related companies and this may create risks. we may acquire, develop or redevelop properties or acquire real estate related companies when we believe doing so is consistent with our business strategy. we may not succeed in (i) developing, redeveloping or acquiring real estate and real estate related companies; (ii) completing these activities on time or within budget; or (iii) leasing or selling developed, redeveloped or acquired properties at amounts sufficient to cover our costs. competition in these activities could also significantly increase our costs. difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management's attention. acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. we may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred. furthermore, we may be exposed to the liabilities of properties or companies acquired, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our securities. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our securities. it may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. 18 we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar returns. as part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries with different risks than investing and operating real estate. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies that we may not control, including, but not limited to, alexander's, urban edge properties ( ue ), pennsylvania real estate investment trust ( preit ), and other equity and loan investments. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from investing and operating real estate. consequently, we are subject to operating and financial risks of those industries and to the risks associated with lack of control, such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing directly or indirectly with these partners or entities. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. we are subject to risks involved in real estate activity through joint ventures and private equity real estate funds. we have in the past and may in the future acquire or own properties in joint ventures and private equity real estate funds with other persons or entities when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. joint venture and fund investments involve risk, including: the possibility that our partners might refuse to make capital contributions when due and therefore we may be forced to make contributions to maintain the value of the property; that we may be responsible to our partners for indemnifiable losses; that our partners might at any time have business or economic goals that are inconsistent with ours; and that our partners may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our recommendations, instructions or requests. we and our respective joint venture partners may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell, put right or forced sale arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, or to sell the underlying asset, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction, without our consent or on unfavorable terms. in some instances, joint venture and fund partners may have competing interests in unfavorable terms. in some instances, joint venture and fund partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest. these conflicts may include compliance with the reit requirements, and our reit status could be jeopardized if any of our joint ventures or funds does not operate in compliance with reit requirements. to the extent our partners do not meet their obligations to us or our joint ventures or funds, or they take action inconsistent with the interests of the joint venture or fund, we may be adversely affected. our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. we evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period. if we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired. depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. this loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. 19 we invest in marketable equity securities. the value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. we invest in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded companies, such as lexington realty trust. as of december 31, 2018 , our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $152,198,000, at market. significant declines in the value of these investments due to, among other reasons, operating performance or economic or market conditions, would result in recognized gaap losses which could be material. our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. this, in turn, requires the operating partnership to make distributions to its unitholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. we depend on dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred equity holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to us. substantially all of vornado's assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to its equity holders depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado's ability to pay dividends to its holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado. furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to the operating partnership's equity holders, including vornado. thus, vornado's ability to pay cash dividends to its equity holders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to its equity holders, including vornado. as of december 31, 2018 , there were four series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado with a total liquidation value of $55,921,000. in addition, vornado's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred equity holders, are satisfied. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness that could affect our future operations. as of december 31, 2018 , our consolidated mortgages and unsecured indebtedness, excluding related premium, discount and deferred financing costs, net, totaled $9.9 billion. we are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet our required debt service. our debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments in the market or at our properties, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from our properties. should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from such property is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value. 20 we have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. we rely on both secured and unsecured, variable rate and non-variable rate debt to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. in addition, the cost of our existing debt may increase, especially in the case of a rising interest rate environment, and we may not be able to refinance our existing debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. if the cost or amount of our indebtedness increases or we cannot refinance our debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we are at risk of credit ratings downgrades and default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the applicable lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured indebtedness and debt that we may obtain in the future may contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain ratio of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from such other sources or give possession of a secured property to the lender. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred shares could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common shares or any other securities. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading/redemption price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our equity holders. vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that vornado will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, vornado may fail to remain so qualified. qualifications are governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and depend on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, vornado fails to maintain its qualification as a reit and does not qualify under statutory relief provisions, vornado could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if vornado had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to equity holders and pay its indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and vornado would not be required to make distributions to shareholders in that taxable year and in future years until it was able to qualify as a reit and did so. in addition, vornado would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless vornado were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. we face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. from time to time changes in tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. the shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends and distributions. 21 loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares and operating partnership class a units. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado. while we believe that we could find a replacement for him and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our securities. vornado's charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. vornado's amended and restated declaration of trust (the declaration of trust ) sets limits on the ownership of its shares. generally, for vornado to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado's taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado's declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by vornado's board of trustees. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of equity holders. the maryland general corporation law (the mgcl ) contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. the mgcl imposes conditions and restrictions on certain business combinations (including, among other transactions, a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance of equity securities) between a maryland reit and certain persons who beneficially own at least 10% of the corporation's stock (an interested shareholder ). unless approved in advance by the board of trustees of the trust, or otherwise exempted by the statute, such a business combination is prohibited for a period of five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. after such five-year period, a business combination with an interested shareholder must be: (a) recommended by the board of trustees of the trust, and (b) approved by the affirmative vote of at least (i) 80% of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote and (ii) two-thirds of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote which are not held by the interested shareholder with whom the business combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the trust's common shareholders receive a fair price (as defined by the statute) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for his or her shares. in approving a transaction, vornado's board of trustees may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of trustees. vornado's board of trustees has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between vornado and any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates. as a result, any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado that may not be in the best interest of our equity holders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. 22 vornado may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado may issue. vornado's board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado, and therefore of the operating partnership, or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders, although vornado's board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado's declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders. we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our equity holders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization, dividends and distributions, are exclusively determined by vornado's board of trustees. accordingly, our equity holders do not control these policies. our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of vornado's other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2018, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 7.1% of the common shares of beneficial interest of vornado and 26.2% of the common stock of alexander's, which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado, and therefore over the operating partnership. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander's currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. we manage and lease the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of annual base rent and percentage rent. see note 23 related party transactions to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. 23 there may be conflicts of interest between alexander's and us. as of december 31, 2018 , we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's. alexander's is a reit that has seven properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 2.3% that they indirectly own through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 26.2% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's as of december 31, 2018 . mr. roth is the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and also directors of alexander's and general partners of interstate properties. dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander's. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president chief financial officer and chief administrative officer, is the treasurer of alexander's and matthew iocco, our executive vice president chief accounting officer, is the chief financial officer of alexander's. we manage, develop and lease alexander's properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from alexander's. see note 23 related party transactions to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of vornado's common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate. the trading price of vornado's common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of vornado's common shares and the redemption price of the operating partnership's class a units. among those factors are: our financial condition and performance; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; our dividend policy; the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reits; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional investor interest in us; the extent of short-selling of vornado common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for reits and other real estate related companies; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; changes in tax laws and rules; and all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. a significant decline in vornado's stock price could result in substantial losses for our equity holders. 24 vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares and the redemption price of the operating partnership's units. the interests of equity holders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. as of december 31, 2018 , vornado had authorized but unissued, 59,464,501 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 72,116,023 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 18,882,197 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 11,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that future sales of vornado's common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our securities. in addition, under maryland law, vornado's board of trustees has the authority to increase the number of authorized shares without shareholder approval. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. market interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. our exposure to a change in interest rates on our consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as follows: (amounts in thousands, except per share and unit amounts) 2018 2017 december 31, balance weighted average interest rate effect of 1% change in base rates december 31, balance weighted average interest rate consolidated debt: variable rate $ 3,292,382 4.31% $ 32,924 $ 3,492,133 3.19% fixed rate 6,603,465 3.65% 6,311,706 3.72% $ 9,895,847 3.87% 32,924 $ 9,803,839 3.53% pro rata share of debt of non-consolidated entities (1) : variable rate $ 1,300,797 4.05% 13,008 $ 1,395,001 3.24% fixed rate 1,382,068 4.19% 2,035,888 4.89% $ 2,682,865 4.12% 13,008 $ 3,430,889 4.22% noncontrolling interests' share of consolidated subsidiaries (1,649 ) total change in annual net income attributable to the operating partnership 44,283 noncontrolling interests' share of the operating partnership (2,741 ) total change in annual net income attributable to vornado $ 41,542 total change in annual net income attributable to the operating partnership per diluted class a unit $ 0.22 total change in annual net income attributable to vornado per diluted share $ 0.22 _______________________ (1) as a result of toys r us ( toys ) filing a voluntary petition under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code, we determined the company no longer has the ability to exercise significant influence over toys. accordingly, we have excluded our share of toys debt. we may utilize various financial instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings, including hedging strategies, depending on our analysis of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies. as of december 31, 2018 , we have an interest rate swap on a $375,000,000 mortgage loan on 888 seventh avenue that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.60% (3.99% as of december 31, 2018 ) to a fixed rate of 3.15% through december 2020; an interest rate swap on a $700,000,000 mortgage loan on 770 broadway that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.75% (4.13% as of december 31, 2018 ) to a fixed rate of 2.56% through september 2020; and an interest rate swap on a $100,000,000 mortgage loan on 33-00 northern boulevard that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.80% (4.19% as of december 31, 2018 ) to a fixed rate of 4.14% through january 2025. in connection with the extension of our $750,000,000 unsecured term loan, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that swapped the rate from libor plus 1.00% (3.52% as of december 31, 2018) to a fixed rate of 3.87% through october 2023. fair value of debt the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt is calculated based on current market prices and discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt. as of december 31, 2018 , the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt was $9,856,000,000. 93risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. for these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k or the date of any document incorporated by reference. all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on form 10-k. 6 part i item 1. business vornado is a fully integrated reit and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, the operating partnership, a delaware limited partnership. accordingly, vornado's cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders are dependent upon the cash flow of the operating partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors. vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 93.1% of the common limited partnership interest in the operating partnership as of december 31, 2019 . we currently own all or portions of: new york: 19.1 million square feet of manhattan office in 35 properties; 2.3 million square feet of manhattan street retail in 70 properties; 1,991 units in 10 residential properties; the 1,700 room hotel pennsylvania located on seventh avenue at 33rd street in the heart of the penn district; and a 32.4% interest in alexander's, inc. ( alexander's ) (nyse: alx), which owns seven properties in the greater new york metropolitan area, including 731 lexington avenue, the 1.3 million square foot bloomberg, l.p. headquarters building. other real estate and investments: the 3.7 million square foot themart in chicago; a 70% controlling interest in 555 california street, a three-building office complex in san francisco's financial district aggregating 1.8 million square feet ; a 25.0% interest in vornado capital partners, our real estate fund (the "fund"). we are the general partner and investment manager of the fund; and other real estate and investments. objectives and strategy our business objective is to maximize vornado shareholder value. we intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and to execute our operating strategies through: maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit; investing in properties in select markets, such as new york city, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation; acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents; developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value; and investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component. we expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets. we may also offer vornado common or preferred shares or operating partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the future. dispositions we contributed seven properties to fifth avenue and times square jv and transferred a 48.5% common interest in the joint venture to a group of institutional investors for net cash proceeds of $1.179 billion. we retained the remaining 51.5% common interest and an aggregate $1.828 billion of preferred equity interests in certain of the properties. we also completed the following sale transactions during 2019 : $1.61 billion net proceeds from the sale of 54 condominium units at 220 central park south; $168 million sale of all of our 18,468,969 common shares of lexington realty trust; $109 million conversion and sale of all of our 5,717,184 partnership units of urban edge properties; $100 million sale of our 25% interest in 330 madison avenue; and $50 million sale of 3040 m street. 7 financings we completed the following financing transactions during 2019 : $1.50 billion unsecured revolving credit facilities (increased from $1.25 billion) extended to march 2024, lowering the interest rate from libor plus 1.00% to libor plus 0.90%; $800 million refinancing of 650 madison avenue ($161 million at our 20.1% interest); $580 million refinancing of 100 west 33rd street; $575 million mortgage loan repayment on penn2 with proceeds from our unsecured revolving credit facilities; $500 million financing of 640 fifth avenue ($260 million at our 52% interest) with proceeds used for the redemption of our temporary preferred equity in the property; $400 million redemption of all of the outstanding 5.00% senior unsecured notes; $375 million mortgage loan on 888 seventh avenue extended to december 2025; $168 million refinancing of 61 ninth avenue ($76 million at our 45.1% interest); $146 million refinancing of 512 west 22nd street ($80 million at our 55% interest); $145 million refinancing of lucida ($36 million at our 25% interest); $96 million refinancing of 435 seventh avenue; $86 million refinancing of 50-70 west 93rd street ($43 million at our 49.9% interest); $75 million refinancing of 606 broadway ($38 million at our 50% interest); $60 million refinancing of 825 seventh avenue ($30 million at our 50% interest); and $737 million which fully repaid the $950 million 220 central park south loan. development and redevelopment expenditures 220 central park south we are constructing a residential condominium tower containing 397,000 salable square feet at 220 central park south ("220 cps"). the development cost of this project (exclusive of land cost of $515.4 million) is estimated to be approximately $1.450 billion, of which $1.373 billion has been expended as of december 31, 2019. penn district we are redeveloping penn1, a 2,545,000 square foot office building located on 34th street between seventh and eighth avenue. the development cost of this project is estimated to be $325,000,000, of which $69,006,000 has been expended as of december 31, 2019. we are redeveloping penn2, a 1,795,000 square foot (as expanded) office building, located on the west side of seventh avenue between 31st and 33rd street. the development cost of this project is estimated to be $750,000,000, of which $40,820,000 has been expended as of december 31, 2019. we are also making districtwide improvements within the penn district. the development cost of these improvements is estimated to be $100,000,000, of which $6,314,000 has been expended as of december 31, 2019. our 95.0% joint venture (the remaining 5.0% is owned by the related companies ("related")) is developing the farley office and retail building (the "project"), which will include approximately 844,000 rentable square feet of commercial space, comprised of approximately 730,000 square feet of office space and approximately 114,000 square feet of retail space. the total development cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $1,030,000,000. as of december 31, 2019, $597,600,000 has been expended. the joint venture has entered into a development agreement with empire state development ( esd ), an entity of new york state, to build the adjacent moynihan train hall, with vornado and related each guaranteeing the joint venture's obligations. the joint venture has entered into a design-build contract with skanska moynihan train hall builders pursuant to which they will build the moynihan train hall, thereby fulfilling all of the joint venture's obligations to esd. the obligations of skanska moynihan train hall builders have been bonded by skanska usa and bear a full guaranty from skanska ab. the development expenditures for the moynihan train hall are estimated to be approximately $1.6 billion, which will be funded by governmental agencies. on december 19, 2019, we paid kmart corporation $34,000,000, of which $10,000,000 is expected to be reimbursed, to early terminate their 141,000 square foot retail space lease at penn1 which was scheduled to expire in january 2036. we recently entered into a development agreement with metropolitan transportation authority to oversee the development of the long island rail road 33rd street entrance at penn station which skanska usa civil northeast, inc. will construct under a fixed price contract for $120,805,000. other we are redeveloping a 78,000 square foot class a office building at 345 montgomery street, a part of our 555 california street complex in san francisco (70.0% interest) located at the corner of california and pine street. the development cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $50,000,000, of which our share is $35,000,000. as of december 31, 2019, $48,087,000 has been expended, of which our share is $33,661,000. 8 development and redevelopment expenditures - continued other - continued we are redeveloping a 165,000 square foot office building at 825 seventh avenue, located at the corner of 53rd street and seventh avenue (50.0% interest). the redevelopment cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $30,000,000, of which our share is $15,000,000. as of december 31, 2019, $23,128,000 has been expended, of which our share is $11,564,000. we are also evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities at certain of our properties in manhattan including, in particular, the penn district. there can be no assurance that the above projects will be completed, completed on schedule or within budget. competition we compete with a large number of real estate investors, property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. principal factors of competition are rents charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and the quality of services provided. our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the global, national, regional and local economies, the financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation, population and employment trends. see "risk factors" in item 1a for additional information regarding these factors. segment data we operate in the following reportable segments: new york and other. financial information related to these reportable segments for the years ended december 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 is set forth in note 25 segment information to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. the new york segment has historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year. tenants accounting for over 10% of revenues none of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended december 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . certain activities we do not base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. we have historically held our properties for long term investment; however, it is possible that properties in our portfolio may be sold or otherwise disposed of when circumstances warrant. further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by vornado's board of trustees without the vote of our shareholders or operating partnership unitholders. employees as of december 31, 2019 , we have approximately 4,008 employees, of which 273 are corporate staff. the new york segment has 3,562 employees, including 2,914 employees of building maintenance services llc, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our new york properties and 462 employees at the hotel pennsylvania. themart has 173 employees. the foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities. principal executive offices our principal executive offices are located at 888 seventh avenue, new york, new york 10019; telephone (212) 894 7000. materials available on our website copies of our annual report on form 10 k, quarterly reports on form 10 q, current reports on form 8 k and amendments to those reports, as well as reports on forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission. also available on our website are copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics, and corporate governance guidelines. in the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. our website also includes other financial and non-financial information, including certain non-gaap financial measures, none of which is a part of this annual report on form 10-k. copies of our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon request. 9 item 1a. risk factors material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below. we refer to the equity and debt securities of both vornado and the operating partnership as our securities and the investors who own shares of vornado or units of the operating partnership, or both, as our equity holders. the risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. see forward-looking statements contained herein on page 6. our investments are concentrated in the new york city metropolitan area and circumstances affecting this area generally could materially and adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our properties is located in the new york city metropolitan area and is affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to this area. in 2019 , approximately 87% of our net operating income ("noi", a non-gaap measure) came from properties located in the new york city metropolitan area. we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions, development and redevelopment in this area. real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact this market in either the short or long term. declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in the new york city metropolitan area could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. in addition to the factors affecting the national economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in this region include: financial performance and productivity of the media, advertising, professional services, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; changes in the number of domestic and international tourists to our markets (including as a result of changes in the relative strengths of world currencies); infrastructure quality; changes in rates or the treatment of the deductibility of state and local taxes; and any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. it is impossible for us to ensure the accuracy of predictions of the future or the effect of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the united states, or the real estate markets in these areas. local, national or global economic downturns could negatively affect our businesses and profitability. we are subject to risks that affect the general and new york city retail environments. certain of our properties are manhattan retail properties. approximately 22% of our noi is from manhattan retail properties. as such, these properties are affected by the general and new york city retail environments, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, manhattan tourism, the threat of terrorism, increasing competition from on-line retailers, other retailers, and outlet malls, and the impact of technological change upon the retail environment generally. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants, or result in the bankruptcy of such tenants, and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail locations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. we have significant investments in the new york city, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. in response to a terrorist attack or the perceived threat of terrorism, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. this, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. furthermore, we may experience increased costs in security, equipment and personnel. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. 10 natural disasters and the effects of climate change could have a concentrated impact on the areas where we operate and could adversely impact our results. our investments are concentrated in the new york, chicago and san francisco metropolitan areas. natural disasters, including earthquakes, storms, tornados, floods and hurricanes, could cause significant damage to our properties and the surrounding environment or area. potentially adverse consequences of global warming, including rising sea levels, could similarly have an impact on our properties and the economies of the metropolitan areas in which we operate. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy at our properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our properties against such risks. the incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results. real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to various factors. our performance and the value of an investment in us are subject to risks associated with our real estate assets and with the real estate industry. the value of our real estate and the value of an investment in us fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. these conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: global, national, regional and local economic conditions; competition from other available space; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; how well we manage our properties; the development and/or redevelopment of our properties; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; the ability of state and local governments to operate within their budgets; whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; changes in consumer preferences adversely affecting retailers and retail store values; changes in space utilization by our tenants due to technology, economic conditions and business environment; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attacks against, the united states or individual acts of violence in public spaces; trends in office real estate; the impact on our retail tenants and demand for retail space at our properties due to increased competition from online shopping; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; inflation or deflation; fluctuations in interest rates; our ability to obtain adequate insurance; changes in zoning laws and taxation; government regulation; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; natural disasters; general competitive factors; and climate changes. the rents or sales proceeds we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. if rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available for operating costs, to pay indebtedness and for distribution to equity holders. in addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. 11 capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations as well as the value of an investment in our debt and equity securities. there are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy. demand for office and retail space typically declines nationwide due to an economic downturn, bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets. the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our results of operations, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. u.s. federal tax reform legislation now and in the future could affect reits generally, the geographic markets in which we operate, the trading of our shares and our results of operations, both positively and negatively, in ways that are difficult to anticipate. the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 act ) represented sweeping tax reform legislation that made significant changes to corporate and individual tax rates and the calculation of taxes, as well as international tax rules. as a reit, we are generally not required to pay federal taxes otherwise applicable to regular corporations if we comply with the various tax regulations governing reits. shareholders, however, are generally required to pay taxes on reit dividends. the 2017 act and future tax reform legislation could impact our share price or how shareholders and potential investors view an investment in reits. for example, the decrease in corporate tax rates in the 2017 act could decrease the attractiveness of the reit structure relative to companies that are not organized as reits. in addition, while certain elements of the 2017 act do not impact us directly as a reit, they could impact the geographic markets in which we operate as well as our tenants in ways, both positive and negative, that are difficult to anticipate. for example, the limitation in the 2017 act on the deductibility of certain state and local taxes may make operating in jurisdictions that impose such taxes at higher rates less desirable than operating in jurisdictions imposing such taxes at lower rates. the overall impact of the 2017 act also depends on the future interpretations and regulations that may be issued by u.s. tax authorities, and it is possible that future guidance could adversely impact us. real estate is a competitive business and that competition may adversely impact us. we compete with a large number of real estate investors, property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. principal factors of competition are rents charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and the quality of services provided. substantially all of our properties face competition from similar properties in the same market, which may adversely impact the rents we can charge at those properties and our results of operations. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we may acquire properties when we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors, which may adversely affect us because that competition may cause an increase in the purchase price for a desired acquisition property or result in a competitor acquiring the desired property instead of us. if we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. in addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. in addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to equity holders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal and other costs. even if we are able to enforce our rights, a tenant may not have recoverable assets. we may be adversely affected by trends in office real estate. approximately 72% of our noi is from our office properties. telecommuting, flexible work schedules, open workplaces and teleconferencing are becoming more common. these practices enable businesses to reduce their office space requirements. there is also an increasing trend among some businesses to utilize shared office spaces and co-working spaces. a continuation of the movement towards these practices could, over time, erode the overall demand for office space and, in turn, place downward pressure on occupancy, rental rates and property valuations. 12 we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, considering among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. in addition, changes in space utilization by our tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to equity holders could be adversely affected. bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. from time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. as a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased net income and funds available to pay our indebtedness or make distributions to equity holders. the occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber security, as well as other disruptions of our it networks and related systems, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships or reputation, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. we face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons who access our systems from inside or outside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our it networks and related systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. although we have not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, we have experienced cyber attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures that we have put in place. our it networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing our building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. unauthorized parties, whether within or outside our company, may disrupt or gain access to our systems, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through human error, misfeasance, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceit, including break-ins, use of stolen credentials, social engineering, phishing, computer viruses or other malicious codes, and similar means of unauthorized and destructive tampering. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a security breach or other significant disruption involving our it networks and related systems could disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our tenants; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or which could expose us to damage claims by third-parties for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space; require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; subject us to litigation claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, fines, penalties, governmental investigations and enforcement actions or termination of leases or other agreements; or damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally. any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. a cyber attack or systems failure could interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting requirements, which could adversely affect us. a cyber attack could also compromise the confidential information of our employees, tenants, customers and vendors. a successful attack could disrupt and materially affect our business operations, including damaging relationships with tenants, customers and vendors. any compromise of our information security systems could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information (which may be confidential, proprietary and/or commercially sensitive in nature) and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. 13 some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. for our properties except the farley office and retail building, we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and per property, and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, with sub-limits for certain perils such as flood and earthquake. our california properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $350,000,000 per occurrence and in the aggregate, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property. we maintain coverage for certified terrorism acts with limits of $6.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate (as listed below), $1.2 billion for non-certified acts of terrorism, and $5.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate for terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) terrorism events, as defined by the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, as amended to date and which has been extended through december 2027. penn plaza insurance company, llc ( ppic ), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a portion of all risk property and rental value insurance and a portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for coverage for acts of terrorism including nbcr acts. coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding nbcr acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the federal government with no exposure to ppic. for nbcr acts, ppic is responsible for a deductible of $1,430,413 and 20% of the balance of a covered loss and the federal government is responsible for the remaining portion of a covered loss. we are ultimately responsible for any loss incurred by ppic. for the farley office and retail building, we maintain general liability insurance with limits of $100,000,000 per occurrence, and builder's risk insurance including coverage for existing property and development activities of $2.8 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate. we maintain coverage for certified and non-certified terrorism acts with limits of $1.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate. we continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism and other events. however, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future. we are responsible for uninsured losses and for deductibles and losses in excess of our insurance coverage, which could be material. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance or refinance our properties and expand our portfolio. compliance or failure to comply with the americans with disabilities act ("ada") or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. ada generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. from time to time persons have asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ada, but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. if, under the ada, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to equity holders. our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. changes in the method pursuant to which the libor rates are determined and phasing out of libor after 2021 may affect our financial results. the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority ("fca"), which regulates the london interbank offered rate ("libor"), announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. in response, the federal reserve board and the federal reserve bank of new york organized the alternative reference rates committee which identified the secured overnight financing rate ("sofr") as its preferred alternative to usd-libor in derivatives and other financial contracts. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, including when libor will cease to be available or when there will be sufficient liquidity in the sofr markets. we have outstanding debt and derivatives with variable rates that are indexed to libor. in the transition from the use of libor to sofr or other alternatives, the level of interest payments we incur may change. in addition, although certain of our libor based obligations provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate payable on certain of our obligations (including transition to an alternative benchmark rate) if libor is not reported, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with the interest rates and/or payments that would have been made on our obligations if libor was available in its current form. use of alternative interest rates or other libor reforms could result in increased volatility or a tightening of credit markets which could adversely affect our ability to obtain cost-effective financing. 14 we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. the owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may also impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. the maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. we are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. our predecessor companies may be subject to similar liabilities for activities of those companies in the past. we could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties . each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. to date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. however, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us . in addition, we may become subject to costs or taxes, or increases therein, associated with natural resource or energy usage (such as a carbon tax ). these costs or taxes could increase our operating costs and decrease the cash available to pay our obligations or distribute to equity holders. we face risks associated with our tenants being designated prohibited persons by the office of foreign assets control and similar requirements. pursuant to executive order 13224 and other laws, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury ( ofac ) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned ( prohibited persons ) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the united states and thereby restricts our doing business with such persons. in addition, our leases, loans and other agreements may require us to comply with ofac and related requirements, and any failure to do so may result in a breach of such agreements. if a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the ofac list or is otherwise a party with whom we are prohibited from doing business, we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement or face other penalties. any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. we may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we have acquired in the past and intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of properties and portfolios of properties, including, but not limited to, large portfolios that could increase our size and result in alterations to our capital structure. our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, we may be unable to complete that acquisition after making a non-refundable deposit and incurring certain other acquisition-related costs; we may be unable to obtain or assume financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; the actual costs of repositioning, redeveloping or maintaining acquired properties may be greater than our estimates and may require significantly greater time and attention of management than anticipated; the acquisition agreement will likely contain conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction or other conditions that are not within our control, which may not be satisfied; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area, costs associated with opening a new regional office and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; we may acquire real estate through the acquisition of the ownership entity subjecting us to the risks of that entity and we may be exposed to the liabilities of properties or companies acquired, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition; and 15 we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. any delay or failure on our part to identify, negotiate, finance and consummate such acquisitions in a timely manner and on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our financial expectations, could impede our growth and have an adverse effect on us, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the market value of our securities. we are exposed to risks associated with property redevelopment and repositioning that could adversely affect us, including our financial condition and results of operations. we continue to engage in redevelopment and repositioning activities with respect to our properties, and, accordingly, we are subject to certain risks, which could adversely affect us, including our financial condition and results of operations. these risks include, without limitation, (i) the availability and pricing of financing on favorable terms or at all; (ii) the availability and timely receipt of zoning and other regulatory approvals; (iii) the potential for the fluctuation of occupancy rates and rents at redeveloped properties, which may result in our investment not being profitable; (iv) start up, repositioning and redevelopment costs may be higher than anticipated; (v) cost overruns and untimely completion of construction (including risks beyond our control, such as weather or labor conditions, or material shortages); (vi) the potential that we may fail to recover expenses already incurred if we abandon development or redevelopment opportunities after we begin to explore them; (vii) the potential that we may expend funds on and devote management time to projects which we do not complete; (viii) the inability to complete leasing of a property on schedule or at all, resulting in an increase in construction or redevelopment costs; and (ix) the possibility that properties will be leased at below expected rental rates. these risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and could prevent the initiation or the completion of redevelopment activities, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the market value of our common shares and ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make one or more material acquisitions. the announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our securities. we are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value. however, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our securities. it may be difficult to sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. real estate investments are relatively illiquid. consequently, we may have limited ability to dispose of assets in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions which could have an adverse effect on our sources of working capital and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. we may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar returns. as part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. these agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance. in addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies operate in industries with different risks than investing and operating real estate. from time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies that we may not control, including, but not limited to, alexander's, our fifth avenue and times square jv, and other equity and loan investments. although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from investing and operating real estate. consequently, we are subject to operating and financial risks of those industries and to the risks associated with lack of control, such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing directly or indirectly with these partners or entities. in addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. 16 we are subject to risks involved in real estate activity through joint ventures and private equity real estate funds. we currently own properties through joint ventures and private equity real estate funds with other persons and entities and may in the future acquire or own properties through joint ventures and funds when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. joint venture and fund investments involve risk, including: the possibility that our partners might refuse to make capital contributions when due and therefore we may be forced to make contributions to maintain the value of the property; that we may be responsible to our partners for indemnifiable losses; that our partners might at any time have business or economic goals that are inconsistent with ours; and that our partners may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our recommendations, instructions or requests. we and our respective joint venture partners may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell, put right or forced sale arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, or to sell the underlying asset, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction, without our consent or on unfavorable terms. in some instances, joint venture and fund partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest. these conflicts may include compliance with the reit requirements, and our reit status could be jeopardized if any of our joint ventures or funds do not operate in compliance with reit requirements. to the extent our partners do not meet their obligations to us or our joint ventures or funds, or they take action inconsistent with the interests of the joint venture or fund, we may be adversely affected. our organizational and financial structure gives rise to operational and financial risks. we may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. we depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. this is because one of the requirements of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, for a reit is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. this, in turn, requires the operating partnership to make distributions to its unitholders. there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. for information about our available sources of funds, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. we depend on dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. the creditors and preferred equity holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to us. substantially all of vornado's assets are held through its operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. the operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of vornado's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the operating partnership. the creditors of each of vornado's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. thus, the operating partnership's ability to make distributions to its equity holders depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the operating partnership. likewise, vornado's ability to pay dividends to its holders of common and preferred shares depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to make distributions to vornado. furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to the operating partnership's equity holders, including vornado. thus, vornado's ability to pay cash dividends to its equity holders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to its equity holders, including vornado. as of december 31, 2019 , there were four series of preferred units of the operating partnership not held by vornado with a total liquidation value of $55,075,000. in addition, vornado's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred equity holders, are satisfied. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness that could affect our future operations. as of december 31, 2019 , our consolidated mortgages and unsecured indebtedness, excluding related premium, discount and deferred financing costs, net, totaled $7.4 billion. we are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet our required debt service. our debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments in the market or at our properties, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from our properties. should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from such property is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value. 17 we have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. we rely on both secured and unsecured, variable rate and non-variable rate debt to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. if we are unable to obtain debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. in addition, the cost of our existing debt may increase, especially in the case of a rising interest rate environment, and we may not be able to refinance our existing debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. if the cost or amount of our indebtedness increases or we cannot refinance our debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we are at risk of credit ratings downgrades and default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities. the mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the applicable lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. our unsecured indebtedness and debt that we may obtain in the future may contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of ebitda to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain ratio of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. in addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from such other sources or give possession of a secured property to the lender. under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us or may be available only on unattractive terms. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred shares could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common shares or any other securities. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading/redemption price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our equity holders. vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit and may be required to pay federal income taxes at corporate rates. although we believe that vornado will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, vornado may fail to remain so qualified. qualifications are governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and depend on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. in addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a reit. if, with respect to any taxable year, vornado fails to maintain its qualification as a reit and does not qualify under statutory relief provisions, vornado could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. the federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. if vornado had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to equity holders and pay its indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and vornado would not be required to make distributions to shareholders in that taxable year and in future years until it was able to qualify as a reit and did so. in addition, vornado would also be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless vornado were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. we may face possible adverse federal tax audits and changes in federal tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. in the normal course of business, certain entities through which we own real estate either have undergone or may undergo tax audits. although we believe that we have substantial arguments in favor of our positions, in some instances there is no controlling precedent or interpretive guidance. there can be no assurance that audits will not occur with increased frequency or that the ultimate result of such audits will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. at any time, the u.s. federal income tax laws governing reits or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended, including with respect to our hotel ownership structure. we cannot predict if or when any new u.s. federal income tax law, regulation, or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing u.s. federal income tax law, treasury regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. vornado, its taxable reit subsidiaries, and our securityholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, u.s. federal income tax law, treasury regulation or administrative interpretation. 18 we may face possible adverse state and local tax audits and changes in state and local tax law. because vornado is organized and qualifies as a reit, it is generally not subject to federal income taxes, but we are subject to certain state and local taxes. in the normal course of business, certain entities through which we own real estate either have undergone, or are currently undergoing, tax audits. although we believe that we have substantial arguments in favor of our positions in the ongoing audits, in some instances there is no controlling precedent or interpretive guidance on the specific point at issue. there can be no assurance that audits will not occur with increased frequency or that the ultimate result of such audits will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. from time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. a shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in which we operate may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. if such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. these increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends and distributions to our security holders. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares and operating partnership class a units. we are dependent on the efforts of steven roth, the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado. while we believe that we could find a replacement for him and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our securities. vornado's charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. vornado's amended and restated declaration of trust (the declaration of trust ) sets limits on the ownership of its shares. generally, for vornado to maintain its qualification as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of vornado's taxable year. the internal revenue code defines individuals for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. under vornado's declaration of trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by vornado's board of trustees. in addition, our declaration of trust includes restrictions on ownership of our common shares and preferred shares to preserve our status as a "domestically controlled qualified investment entity" within the meaning of section 897 (h)(4)(b) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. these restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of equity holders. the maryland general corporation law (the mgcl ) contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. the mgcl imposes conditions and restrictions on certain business combinations (including, among other transactions, a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance of equity securities) between a maryland reit and certain persons who beneficially own at least 10% of the corporation's stock (an interested shareholder ). unless approved in advance by the board of trustees of the trust, or otherwise exempted by the statute, such a business combination is prohibited for a period of five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. after such five-year period, a business combination with an interested shareholder must be: (a) recommended by the board of trustees of the trust, and (b) approved by the affirmative vote of at least (i) 80% of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote and (ii) two-thirds of the trust's outstanding shares entitled to vote which are not held by the interested shareholder with whom the business combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the trust's common shareholders receive a fair price (as defined by the statute) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for his or her shares. in approving a transaction, vornado's board of trustees may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of trustees. vornado's board of trustees has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between vornado and any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates. as a result, any trustee or officer of vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with vornado that may not be in the best interest of our equity holders. with respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. title 3, subtitle 8 of the mgcl permits our board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, including adopting a classified board or increasing the vote required to remove a trustee. such takeover defenses may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under the circumstances that otherwise could provide our common shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. 19 vornado may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. vornado's declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees to: cause vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that vornado issues; and increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that vornado may issue. vornado's board of trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado, and therefore of the operating partnership, or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders, although vornado's board of trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. vornado's declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our equity holders. we may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our equity holders. our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization, dividends and distributions, are exclusively determined by vornado's board of trustees. accordingly, our equity holders do not control these policies. our ownership structure and related-party transactions may give rise to conflicts of interest. steven roth and interstate properties may exercise substantial influence over us. they and some of vornado's other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. as of december 31, 2019, interstate properties, a new jersey general partnership, and its partners beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 7.1% of the common shares of beneficial interest of vornado and 26.1% of the common stock of alexander's, which is described below. steven roth, david mandelbaum and russell b. wight, jr. are the three partners of interstate properties. mr. roth is the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and directors of alexander's. because of these overlapping interests, mr. roth and interstate properties and its partners may have substantial influence over vornado, and therefore over the operating partnership. in addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among messrs. roth, mandelbaum and wight and interstate properties and our other equity holders. in addition, mr. roth, interstate properties and its partners, and alexander's currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. we manage and lease the real estate assets of interstate properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of annual base rent and percentage rent. see note 23 related party transactions to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. there may be conflicts of interest between alexander's and us. as of december 31, 2019 , we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's. alexander's is a reit that has seven properties, which are located in the greater new york metropolitan area. in addition to the 2.3% that they indirectly own through vornado, interstate properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 26.1% of the outstanding common stock of alexander's as of december 31, 2019 . mr. roth is the chairman of the board of trustees and chief executive officer of vornado, the managing general partner of interstate properties, and the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of alexander's. messrs. wight and mandelbaum are trustees of vornado and directors of alexander's and general partners of interstate properties. dr. richard west is a trustee of vornado and a director of alexander's. in addition, joseph macnow, our executive vice president chief financial officer and chief administrative officer, is the treasurer of alexander's and matthew iocco, our executive vice president chief accounting officer, is the chief financial officer of alexander's. we manage, develop and lease alexander's properties under management, development and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from alexander's. these agreements are described in note 6 - investments in partially owned entities to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. 20 the number of shares of vornado realty trust and the market for those shares give rise to various risks. the trading price of vornado's common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate. the trading price of vornado's common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of several factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of vornado's common shares and the redemption price of the operating partnership's class a units. among those factors are: our financial condition and performance; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; our dividend policy; the reputation of reits and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of reit equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reits; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; the extent of institutional investor interest in us; the extent of short-selling of vornado common shares and the shares of our competitors; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for reits and other real estate related companies; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; changes in tax laws and rules; and all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. a significant decline in vornado's stock price could result in substantial losses for our equity holders. vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares and the redemption price of the operating partnership's units. the interests of equity holders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. as of december 31, 2019 , vornado had authorized but unissued, 59,014,323 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 70,384,360 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 21,960,441 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of class a operating partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 11,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred operating partnership units. any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions. in addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the securities act or under rule 144 under the securities act or other available exemptions from registration. we cannot predict the effect that future sales of vornado's common and preferred shares or operating partnership class a and preferred units will have on the market prices of our securities. in addition, under maryland law, vornado's board of trustees has the authority to increase the number of authorized shares without shareholder approval. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. market interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. our exposure to a change in interest rates on our consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as follows: (amounts in thousands, except per share and unit amounts) 2019 2018 december 31, balance weighted average interest rate effect of 1% change in base rates december 31, balance weighted average interest rate consolidated debt: variable rate $ 1,643,500 3.09% $ 16,435 $ 3,292,382 4.31% fixed rate 5,801,516 3.57% 6,603,465 3.65% $ 7,445,016 3.46% 16,435 $ 9,895,847 3.87% pro rata share of debt of non-consolidated entities (1)(2) : variable rate $ 1,441,690 3.34% 14,417 $ 1,237,388 4.06% fixed rate 1,361,169 3.93% 1,382,068 4.19% $ 2,802,859 3.62% 14,417 $ 2,619,456 4.13% noncontrolling interests' share of consolidated subsidiaries (339 ) total change in annual net income attributable to the operating partnership 30,513 noncontrolling interests' share of the operating partnership (1,944 ) total change in annual net income attributable to vornado $ 28,569 total change in annual net income attributable to the operating partnership per diluted class a unit $ 0.15 total change in annual net income attributable to vornado per diluted share $ 0.15 _______________________ (1) as a result of the bankruptcy plan of reorganization for toys "r" us, inc. ("toys") being declared effective and our stock in toys being canceled, we no longer hold an investment in toys. accordingly, no toys debt is included in our pro rata share of debt of non-consolidated entities. (2) our pro rata share of debt of non-consolidated entities as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 is net of our $63,409 share of alexander's participation in its rego park ii shopping center mortgage loan which is considered partially extinguished as the participation interest is a reacquisition of debt. derivatives and hedging we utilize various financial instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings, including hedging strategies, depending on our analysis of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies. the following table summarizes our consolidated derivative instruments, all of which hedge variable rate debt, as of december 31, 2019. (amounts in thousands) as of december 31, 2019 variable rate hedged item (interest rate swaps) fair value notional amount spread over libor interest rate swapped rate expiration date included in other assets: 770 broadway mortgage loan $ 4,045 $ 700,000 l+175 3.46% 2.56% 9/20 888 seventh avenue mortgage loan 218 375,000 l+170 3.44% 3.25% 12/20 other 64 175,000 $ 4,327 $ 1,250,000 included in other liabilities: unsecured term loan $ 36,809 $ 750,000 l+100 2.80% 3.87% 10/23 33-00 northern boulevard mortgage loan 3,545 100,000 l+180 3.52% 4.14% 1/25 $ 40,354 $ 850,000 fair value of debt the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt is calculated based on current market prices and discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt. as of december 31, 2019 , the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt was $7,507,000,000 . 76