quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to interest rate fluctuations on our floating rate bank credit facility. as of december 31, 2003, we had no amounts outstanding related to this credit facility. our credit facility required that we enter into an interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our interest rate risk on a portion of the balance outstanding. we do not however, as a matter of policy, enter into hedging contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the swap agreement has not been designated as a hedging instrument and, as a result, changes in the fair value of the swap agreement are included in current period earnings. our interest rate swap agreement has a notional amount of $10.0 million under which we pay a fixed rate of interest of 2.65% and receive a libor-based floating rate. we recorded a non-cash charge of $0.2 million in 2002 and non-cash credit of $0.1 million in 2003 related to the change in fair value of the interest rate swap agreement. 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facility, where interest rates are tied to either the prime rate or ibor. as of december 31, 2004 we had $47.0 million outstanding under our credit facility. our previous secured credit facility required that we enter into an interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our interest rate risk on a portion of the balance outstanding. we do not however, as a matter of policy, enter into derivative contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the swap agreement, which expired on august 22, 2004, had a notional amount of $10.0 million under which we paid a fixed rate of interest of 2.65% and received payments based upon variable rates. the swap agreement was not designated as a hedging instrument and, as a result, changes in the fair value of the swap agreement were included in current period earnings. we recorded non-cash credits of $90,000 and $69,000 during 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to the change in fair value of the interest rate swap agreement. based upon our variable rate debt at december 31, 2004, a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates would result in an annual increase in interest expense of approximately $0.5 million. the company is also exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket parts in taiwan. while all transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the new taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket parts. we might not be able to pass on any price increases to customers. under our present policies, we do not attempt to hedge this currency exchange rate exposure. our investment in our central american operations is not material, and we do not attempt to hedge our foreign currency risk related to such operations. 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors risks relating to our business we face intense competition from local, national, and internet-based light vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the light vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem products, recycled oem products, aftermarket products, and refurbished products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of light vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of light vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local light vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the recycled oem products industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that substantially in excess of 50% of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. the oems are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on perceived quality. recently, several oems have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to meet the lower-priced alternative products. if such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. original equipment manufacturers have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the original equipment manufacturers have brought such claims in federal court and with the united states international trade commission. since our acquisition of keystone automotive industries, inc. in october 2007, the distribution of aftermarket products constitutes a significantly larger percentage of our business. in december 2005, ford global technologies, llc initiated a complaint with the international trade commission against six companies, including keystone, alleging that certain aftermarket parts imported into the united states infringed on 14 design patents held by ford global. in december 2006, an administrative law judge of the international trade commission preliminarily ruled that seven of the ford global design patents were valid and that the importation of automotive parts covered by these seven patents violated section 337 of the tariff act of 1930. the international trade commission affirmed the ruling of the administrative law judge and issued an order prohibiting further importation of automotive parts covered by the patents. the parties to the action have appealed the decision to the united states circuit court of appeals for the federal circuit. united states patent and trademark office records indicate that oems are seeking and obtaining more design patents then they have in the past. to the extent that the original equipment manufacturers are successful with intellectual property infringement claims, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, an unexpected result of the intellectual property infringement litigation is that capa is decertifying parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of capa 16 certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of capa certified aftermarket parts. an adverse change in our relationships with auction companies or our suppliers could increase our expenses and hurt our ability to serve our customers. most of our salvage inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not have contracts with any auction company. according to industry analysts, two companies control over 65% of the salvage auction market in the u.s. in some localities, the automotive auction business may be even more highly concentrated. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we are facing increased competition in the purchase of salvage vehicles from shredders and scrap recyclers, internet-based buyers, and others. this increase in the number of bidders may increase our cost of goods sold for recycled oem products. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, original equipment manufacturers, aftermarket parts manufacturers, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. we are dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products. although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, transportation delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china and taiwan. because a substantial volume of our sales involves parts manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. if our business relationships with insurance companies end, we may lose important sales opportunities. we rely on business relationships with several insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated at any time. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ( "avery v. state farm" ), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem parts to repair damaged vehicles when use of such parts did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem parts and the alleged inferiority of those parts. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract on the part of state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies had reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be affected, perhaps adversely, if insurance companies 17 modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled oem products from us due to a fear of similar claims with respect to such products. we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of recycled oem, aftermarket or refurbished products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled oem products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled oem products. restrictions on the products we are able to sell could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of light vehicle replacement products. in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. we may not be able to successfully acquire new operations or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. even though we have acquired other businesses, keystone has been our largest acquisition so far. the magnitude of the keystone acquisition may present significant integration challenges, including with respect to systems consolidation and the consolidation of locations that serve some of the same geographic areas. in addition, the costs of such integration may be significantly higher than we anticipated. the successful integration of keystone's business with our own will require substantial attention from our management and employees which may decrease the time they devote to normal and customary operating, selling and administrative functions. if we are unable to successfully integrate keystone's business within a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to realize the potential benefits anticipated from the keystone acquisition. our financial results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully integrate keystone's business. 18 furthermore, even if we are able to successfully integrate keystone's business with our own, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements that we anticipate from the keystone acquisition, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect. in connection with future acquisitions, we may assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire. these liabilities, including liabilities for environmental-related costs, could materially and adversely affect our business. we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. financing the keystone acquisition substantially increased our leverage and involves restrictions on our business. in connection with the acquisition of keystone, we entered into a senior secured debt financing facility with a group of lenders. our total outstanding indebtedness (including bank financing, letters of credit, and notes payable in connection with acquisitions) as of december 31, 2007 was 680.1 million. the increase in our indebtedness may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to fund capital expenditure or working capital needs because we will require additional funds to service our indebtedness. in addition, the new credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions and requires that we satisfy certain financial covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facility or it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. keystone's business may have liabilities that are not known by us. as a result of the keystone acquisition, we assumed keystone's liabilities. there may be liabilities that we failed, or were unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations of keystone. any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. also, we may learn additional information about keystone's business that adversely affects us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities and issues relating to compliance with applicable laws. we may not be able to maintain keystone's or our vendor relationships nor be able to retain key employees of keystone. our combination with keystone may cause vendors to discontinue business with the combined company, which may negatively affect our operating results. additionally, there can be no assurance that key employees of keystone will remain with the combined company. if we lose the services of any of these key employees, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. our future capital needs may require that we seek debt financing or additional equity funding that, if not available, could cause our business to suffer. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional 19 funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business will be negatively affected. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in the pricing of new oem replacement products; the availability and cost of inventory; variations in vehicle accident rates; competition in the vehicle replacement parts industry; changes in state or federal laws or regulations affecting our business; changes in the types of replacement parts that insurance carriers will accept in the repair process; our ability to integrate and manage our acquisitions, including keystone, successfully, and unanticipated costs of integration; fluctuations in fuel prices; changes in the demand for our products and the supply of our inventory due to severity of weather and seasonality of weather patterns; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations, and infrastructure; and declines in the values of our assets. due to the foregoing factors, our operating results in future periods can be expected to fluctuate. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. fluctuations in the prices of scrap metals could adversely affect our financial results. our wholesale recycled oem operations generate scrap metal that we sell. since 2004, we have operated self-service retail recycled oem operations, and we have increased our participation in this business over the last four years. the self-service retail recycled oem business generates a larger percentage of its revenue from sales of scrap metal than our wholesale business. as a result, the percentage of our total revenue from sales of scrap metal has increased over this time period. due to our acquisition of keystone the revenue from our self-service retail oem business and sales of scrap metal should decrease as a percentage of total revenue in the future. the prices of scrap metal have historically fluctuated due to market factors, sometimes significantly. to the extent the prices of scrap metal decrease materially, our revenue from such sales will suffer. the cost of our self-service inventory purchases may also decrease as a result of falling scrap metal prices, but there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal prices and there may be a delay between the scrap metal price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. 20 if we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of future acquisitions. goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. our acquisition of keystone in october 2007 resulted in a significant increase in the amount of goodwill on our balance sheet. as of december 31, 2007, our total goodwill, subject to future impairment testing, was approximately $825.9 million. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines, our business could suffer. because our business depends on vehicle accidents for both the supply of recycled oem products and the demand for repairs using our products, factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the congestion of traffic, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, and the condition of roadways, impact our business. in this regard, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. to the extent vehicle manufacturers develop new accident avoidance systems, the number and severity of accidents could decrease. moreover, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline as motorists seek alternative transportation options and this also could lead to a decline in accidents. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies often resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we rely on information technology in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. we use information technology systems owned by other companies for management of our facilities and our financial functions. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. 21 in addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. in the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business or financial condition. proposed regulations under the national stolen passenger motor vehicle information system could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. this law included the establishment of the national stolen passenger motor vehicle information system to track and monitor stolen automotive parts. in april 2002, the department of justice published for comment proposed regulations to implement this system. the proposed regulations require, among other things, that insurance companies, salvagers, dismantlers, recyclers, and repairers inspect salvage vehicles for the 22 purpose of collecting the vehicle identification number and the part number for any covered major part that possesses the vehicle identification number. the requirement to collect this information would place burdens and costs on us that otherwise would not normally exist, and could discourage our customers from purchasing our products if the proposed regulations are adopted. in february 2008, several consumer groups sued the department of justice in the united states district court for the northern district of california requesting that the court order the department of justice to implement the system. risks relating to our common stock future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. certain of our existing stockholders are parties to a registration rights agreement that provides such holders with the right to require us to effect the registration of their shares of common stock in specific circumstances. in addition, if we propose to register any of our common stock under the securities act, whether for our own account or otherwise, some existing stockholders may be entitled to include their shares of common stock in that registration. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. the new credit agreement we entered into in connection with our acquisition of keystone provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. 23 risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facility, where interest rates are tied to either the prime rate or a eurodollar rate. as of december 31, 2007, we had $650.3 million outstanding under our credit facility. we have not, as a matter of policy, entered into derivative contracts for trading or speculative 45 purposes. we may consider entering into interest rate hedging contracts to lock in interest rates on some of our variable rate debt. based upon our variable rate debt at december 31, 2007, a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates would result in an annual increase in interest expense of approximately $6.5 million. the company is also exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket parts in taiwan. while all transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the new taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket parts. we might not be able to pass on any price increases to customers. under our present policies, we do not attempt to hedge this currency exchange rate exposure. our investments in our central american, canadian and mexican operations are not material, and we do not attempt to hedge our foreign currency risk related to such operations. 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors risks relating to our business our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere. the decline and slow growth in economic conditions in the u.s., the u.k. and canada adversely impacted our business. such conditions have, in some periods, resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims and a reduction of vehicle repairs. in the event that the economic conditions in the u.s. or other countries decline or do not improve, we expect that our business will be negatively affected. we face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that substantially in excess of 50% of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. the oems are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. from time to time, oems have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products. if such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. oems have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the u.s. international trade commission. in december 2005 and may 2008, ford global technologies, llc filed complaints with the international trade commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the u.s. infringed on ford design patents. the parties settled these matters in april 2009 pursuant to a settlement arrangement that expires in march 2015. u.s. patent and trademark office records indicate that oems are seeking and obtaining more design patents then they have in the past. to the extent that the oems are successful with intellectual property infringement claims, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. an adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or auction companies could increase our expenses and hurt our ability to serve our customers. we are dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, most of which are located in taiwan. although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing 17 products. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china, japan and taiwan. because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. in addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the u.s. as we grow and our demand for salvage vehicles increases, the costs of these incremental vehicles could be higher. most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with any auction company. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and others. to the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. we rely upon insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts. our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative parts usage by automotive insurance companies. alternative parts usage has generally increased from year to year, but there can be no assurance that such usage will increase in the future. in addition, in some places we operate, alternative parts usage is relatively low. we also rely on business relationships with several insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ("avery v. state farm"), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of wholesale aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. restrictions on the products we are able to sell could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. 18 certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. if these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. moreover, we may not be able to identify a sufficient number of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our growth objectives. also, over time, we will likely seek to make acquisitions that are relatively larger as we grow. larger acquisition candidates may attract additional competitive buyers, which could increase our cost or could cause us to lose such acquisitions. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could materially and adversely affect our business; our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline. fluctuations in the prices of metals or shipping costs could adversely affect our financial results. all of our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. in a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the price of steel is a component of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of whom are located in asia. if the cost of steel or freight rose we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. 19 if we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2012 , our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $1.7 billion . for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "goodwill impairment" in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines, or the number of cars being repaired declines, our business could suffer. because our business depends on vehicle accidents for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of wholesale recycled products, factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, the effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, and the condition of roadways, impact our business. an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline and the number of miles driven to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options, and this also could lead to a decline in accidents. in addition, since 2007, the average number of new vehicles sold annually in the u.s. has been less than the average number of new vehicles sold annually from 1999 through 2006. this could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents. mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease of vehicle accidents. moreover, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. to the extent oems develop or are mandated by law to install new accident avoidance systems, the number and severity of accidents could decrease. in addition, the average age of vehicles has been increasing, and insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair older vehicles. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. some of the information technology systems and communication systems we use for management of our facilities and our financial functions are leased from or operated by other companies, while others are owned by us. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages of these or our own systems for whatever reason, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. in the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. 20 if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies that could be named as defendants in such lawsuits. the existence of claims for which we must defend and indemnify insurance companies could negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. regulations that may be issued under the anti-car theft act could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on automotive parts recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may further discourage the use of recycled products by such shops. we operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. we have operations in the u.k., canada and mexico, and we may expand our operations into other countries. we also incur costs in currencies, other than our functional currencies, in the countries in which we operate. we are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. in addition, mexico is currently experiencing a heightened level of criminal activity that could affect our ability to maintain our supply of certain aftermarket products. risks relating to our common stock and financial structure future sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, "securities") in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our 21 equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. our credit agreement places restrictions on our business. we have a senior secured debt financing facility with a group of lenders. our total outstanding indebtedness (including bank financing, letters of credit, and notes payable in connection with acquisitions) as of december 31, 2012 was $1.2 billion. the credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions and requires that we satisfy certain financial and other covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facility or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. we rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity. we have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market. this arrangement expires in september 2015. in the event that the market for commercial paper were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether. our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. however, turmoil in the credit markets could result in tight credit conditions, which could affect our ability to raise additional funds. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. future adjustments to contingent purchase price related to acquisitions could materially affect our results. from time to time we acquire companies with a component of the purchase consideration being delayed and the payment thereof contingent on certain performance or other factors, including the time value of money (the "contingent purchase price"). the accounting principles generally accepted in the united states require that we estimate the amount of the contingent purchase price at the time we complete the acquisition. each subsequent reporting period (until the contingent purchase price is either paid or no longer potentially payable), we are required to re-evaluate the estimated amount of remaining contingent purchase price that is likely to be paid. if the revised estimate of the contingent purchase price is higher than the amount accrued, then the difference must be recorded and charged to the income statement in that period. if the revised estimate of the future contingent purchase price is lower than the amount accrued, then the accrual is reduced and the difference is credited to income for the period. because some of these payments would not be deductible for tax purposes, it is possible 22 that the expense (or income) would not be tax-effected on our income statements. these adjustments, if required, could be material to our future results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facility, where interest rates are tied to the prime rate, the london interbank offered rate, or the canadian dealer offered rate. in march 2008, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching effective and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., bank of america, n.a., and rbs citizens, n.a.) and are denominated in currency that matches the underlying debt instrument. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts will be included as adjustments to interest expense. as of december 31, 2012 , we held seven interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $520 million of u.s. dollar-denominated notional amount debt, 50 million of pound sterling-denominated notional amount debt, and cad $25 million of canadian dollar-denominated notional amount debt. in total, we had 64% and 69% of our variable rate debt under our credit facility at fixed rates at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. these swaps have maturity dates ranging from october 2013 through december 2016. these contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2012 , the fair market value of these swaps was a liability of $15.6 million. the values of such contracts are subject to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2012 , we had $428 million of variable rate debt that was not hedged, including $80.0 million of outstanding debt under the receivables securitization facility, which bears interest based on commercial paper rates. using sensitivity analysis to measure the impact of a 100 basis point movement in the interest rates, interest expense would change by $4 million over the next twelve months. to the extent that we have cash investments earning interest, a portion of the increase in interest expense resulting from a variable rate change would be mitigated by higher interest income. we are also exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory as well as the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the effect on our revenue from metal price fluctuations and inventory cost changes. therefore, we can experience positive or negative gross margin effects in periods of rising or falling metal prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. if market prices were to fall at a greater rate than our vehicle acquisition costs, we could experience a decline in gross margin. as of december 31, 2012 , we held short-term metals forward contracts to mitigate a portion of our exposure to fluctuations in metals prices specifically related to our precious metals refining and reclamation business acquired in the second quarter of 2012. the notional amount and fair value of these forward contracts at december 31, 2012 were immaterial. additionally, we are exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products from foreign countries. the majority of our foreign inventory purchases are from manufacturers based in taiwan. while our transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket products. our aftermarket operations in canada, which also purchase inventory from taiwan in u.s. dollars, are further subject to changes in the relationship between the u.s. 41 dollar and the canadian dollar. our aftermarket operations in the u.k. also source a portion of their inventory from taiwan, as well as from other european countries and china, resulting in exposure to changes in the relationship of the pound sterling against the euro and the u.s. dollar. with our acquisition of euro car parts holdings limited in the fourth quarter of 2011, we began hedging our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations for certain of our purchases for our u.k. operations. the notional amount and fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2012 were immaterial. we do not currently attempt to hedge our foreign currency exposure related to our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in our north american operations, and we may not be able to pass on any price increases to our customers. foreign currency fluctuations may also impact the financial results we report for the portions of our business that operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our operations in the u.k. and other countries represented 22% of our revenue in 2012. an increase or decrease in the strength of the u.s. dollar against these currencies by 10% would result in a 2% change in our consolidated revenue and operating income for the year ended december 31, 2012 . other than with respect to a portion of our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in the u.k., we do not hold derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency risk. our net investment in foreign operations is partially hedged by the foreign currency denominated borrowings we use to fund foreign acquisitions. additionally, we have elected not to hedge the foreign currency risk related to the interest payments on these borrowings as we generate pound sterling and canadian dollar cash flows that can be used to fund debt payments. as of december 31, 2012 , we have amounts outstanding under our revolver facility denominated in pounds sterling of 87.5 million ($142.2 million) and canadian dollars of cad $110.0 million ($110.8 million). 42risk factors risks relating to our business our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere. in recent years, worldwide economic conditions have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including the united states, and such conditions may worsen in the foreseeable future. such conditions have, in some periods, resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims, and a reduction of vehicle repairs, all of which could negatively affect our business. our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. the economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. many of these factors are outside of our control. if any of these conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and interest rate swap transactions. these unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. similarly in europe, some local companies are part of cooperative efforts to compete in the aftermarket parts industry. as a result of these factors, our 16 competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. the oems are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. from time to time, oems have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products. if such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. oems have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the u.s. international trade commission. in december 2005 and may 2008, ford global technologies, llc filed complaints with the international trade commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the u.s. infringed on ford design patents. the parties settled these matters in april 2009 pursuant to a settlement arrangement that expires in march 2015. in january 2014, chrysler group, llc filed a complaint against us in the u.s. district court in the eastern district of michigan contending that certain aftermarket parts we sell infringe chrysler design patents relating to the dodge ram pickup truck. the chrysler case is pending. to the extent oems are seeking and obtaining more design patents than they have in the past and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and defending their validity, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. an adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or auction companies could increase our expenses and impede our ability to serve our customers. our business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from taiwan. although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china, japan and taiwan. because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. additionally, as manufacturers convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process. most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and others. to the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. in addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the u.s. as we grow and our demand for salvage vehicles increases, the costs of these incremental vehicles could be higher. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting 17 potential inability to service our customers. we rely upon insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts. our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative parts usage by automotive insurance companies. alternative parts usage has generally increased over the past ten years but has stabilized recently. there can be no assurance that such usage will be maintained or will increase in the future. in addition, in some places we operate, alternative parts usage is relatively low. we also rely on business relationships with insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ("avery v. state farm"), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. in addition, the federal trade commission (ftc) has issued guides which regulate the use of certain terms such as rebuilt or remanufactured in connection with the sale of automotive parts. restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. if these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. moreover, we may not be able to identify a sufficient number of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our growth objectives. also, over time, we will likely seek to make acquisitions that are relatively larger as we grow. larger acquisition candidates may attract additional competitive buyers, which could increase our cost or could cause us to lose such acquisitions. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: 18 the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse affects on our business; our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline. fluctuations in the prices of metals or shipping costs could adversely affect our financial results. our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. in a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the price of steel is a component of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of whom are located in asia. if the cost of steel or freight rose we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. if we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2013 , our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $1.9 billion . for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "goodwill impairment" in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. we amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, which is based upon the expected period to be benefited. we review other intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. in the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash 19 flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge. as of december 31, 2013, the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $154 million . if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of cars being repaired declines, our business could suffer. our business depends on vehicle accidents and mechanical failures for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts. thus, our business is impacted by factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, the effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new oem parts, and the condition of roadways. additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease of vehicle accidents. moreover, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. to the extent oems develop or are mandated by law to install new accident avoidance systems, the number and severity of accidents could decrease. the average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year. periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. substantial further declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. in addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such vehicles or there could be less costly repairs. if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by oem warranties for the first years of a vehicle's life. moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. some of the information technology systems and communication systems we use for management of our facilities and our financial functions are leased from or operated by other companies, while others are owned by us. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages of these or our own systems for whatever reason, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. in the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could 20 extend longer than we anticipated. our business involves the storage of personal information about our customers and employees. we have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect this information; however, if we experience a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to damage to our reputation, additional costs, lost sales or possible regulatory action. the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is constantly changing, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. there is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, and such a breach could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business. weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the closure of our distribution centers ( dc s) or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis. this may affect our ability to timely provide products to our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty. some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the united states or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices. such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective. the expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 21 we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. the existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. regulations that may be issued under the anti-car theft act could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on automotive parts recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use of recycled products by such shops. we operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. we have operations in the u.k., canada, mexico, taiwan, the netherlands, belgium, france, guatemala and costa rica, and we may expand our operations into other countries. our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the u.k. bribery act 2010 and the foreign corrupt practices act. we also incur costs in currencies, other than our functional currencies, in the countries in which we operate. we are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. in addition, mexico is currently experiencing a heightened level of criminal activity that could affect our ability to maintain our supply of certain aftermarket products. new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business . in august 2012, as mandated by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec adopted final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the democratic republic of congo (drc) or adjoining countries. these new requirements will require ongoing due diligence efforts, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in 2014. our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. we may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products free of conflict minerals in some circumstances, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary products from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. accordingly, the implementation of these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. risks relating to our common stock and financial structure future sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, "securities") in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. the market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. 22 the stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions. the market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. in addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline. additionally, the market price for our common stock has been in the past, and in the future may be, adversely affected by allegations made or reports issued by short sellers, analysts or others regarding our business model, our management or our financial accounting. following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. if similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. as of december 31, 2013 , we had $1,305.8 million aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding. our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and increase our cost of borrowing as of december 31, 2013 , we also had $1,070.6 million of undrawn availability (after giving effect to approximately $45.6 million of outstanding letters of credit) under our revolving credit facility and $80.0 million of undrawn availability under our accounts receivable securitization program. in january 2014, we increased our borrowings under our revolving credit facility by $370 million and borrowed the full amount available under our accounts receivable securitization program, primarily to finance our acquisition of keystone specialty. if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: 23 incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof); pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness; incur liens on assets; make certain investments or other restricted payments; receive dividend payments or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries; engage in transactions with affiliates; sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies; guarantee indebtedness; and alter the business that we conduct. as a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. additionally, the senior secured credit facilities limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition of our assets; as a result, our senior secured credit facilities may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly. certain borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and the borrowing under our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. we rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity. we have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market. this arrangement expires in september 2015. in the event that the market for commercial paper were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether. 24 our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. however, turmoil in the credit markets could result in tight credit conditions, which could affect our ability to raise additional funds. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. a downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior unsecured notes. credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital. the evaluations are based upon, among other factors, our financial strength. we believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates. a downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our credit facilities. a downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our notes, preventing a holder from selling the notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affect our ability to issue new notes in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facility, where interest rates are tied to the prime rate, libor or cdor. therefore, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching the currency, effective dates and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts are included as adjustments to interest expense. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a., bank of america, n.a. and rbs citizens, n.a.). as of december 31, 2013 , we held six interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $420 million of u.s. dollar-denominated notional amount debt, 50 million of pound sterling-denominated notional amount debt, and cad $25 million of canadian dollar-denominated notional amount debt. our interest rate swap contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. these swaps have maturity dates ranging from october 2015 through december 2016. in total, we had 78% and 64% of our variable rate debt under our credit facility at fixed rates at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. as of december 31, 2013 , the fair market value of these swap contracts was a net liability of $8.5 million . the values of such contracts are subject to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2013 , we had $146 million of variable rate debt that was not hedged, and in january 2014, we increased our revolver borrowings by $370 million and our receivables securitization borrowings by $80 million related to our acquisition of keystone specialty. including these subsequent borrowings, a 100 basis point movement in interest rates would change interest expense by $6 million over the next twelve months. to the extent that we have cash investments earning interest, a portion of the increase in interest expense resulting from a variable rate change would be mitigated by higher interest income. the proceeds of our may 2013 senior notes offering were used to finance our euro-denominated acquisition of sator, as well as to repay a portion of our pound sterling-denominated revolver borrowings held by our european operations. in connection with these transactions, in 2013 we entered into euro-denominated and pound sterling-denominated intercompany notes, which we intend to settle and which may incur transaction gains and losses from fluctuations in the u.s. dollar against these currencies. to mitigate these fluctuations, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts to sell 150.0 million for $195.0 million and 70.0 million for $105.8 million. the gains or losses from the remeasurement of these contracts are recorded to earnings to offset the remeasurement of the related notes. as of december 31, 2013 , the fair market value of these forward contracts was a liability of $21.8 million . additionally, we are exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products from foreign countries. the majority of our foreign inventory purchases are from manufacturers based in taiwan. while our transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket products. our aftermarket operations in canada, which also purchase inventory from taiwan in u.s. dollars, are further subject to changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the canadian dollar. our aftermarket operations in the u.k. also source a portion of their inventory from taiwan, as well as from other european countries and china, resulting in exposure to changes in the relationship of the pound sterling against the euro and the u.s. dollar. we hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations for certain of our purchases in our european operations, but the notional amount and fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2013 were immaterial. we do not currently attempt to hedge our foreign currency exposure related to our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in our north american operations, and we may not be able to pass on any price increases to our customers. foreign currency fluctuations may also impact the financial results we report for the portions of our business that operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our operations in europe and other countries represented 30% of our revenue during 2013. an increase or decrease in the strength of the u.s. dollar against these currencies by 10% would result in a 3% change in our consolidated revenue and our operating income for the year ended december 31, 2013 . other than with respect to our intercompany transactions denominated in euro and pound sterling and a portion of our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in the u.k., we do not hold derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency risk. our net investment in foreign operations is partially hedged by the foreign currency denominated borrowings we use to fund foreign acquisitions. additionally, we have elected not to hedge the foreign currency risk related to the interest payments on these borrowings as we generate canadian dollar, pound sterling and euro cash flows that can be used to fund 44 debt payments. as of december 31, 2013 , we had amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility denominated in canadian dollars of cad $110.0 million ($103.6 million), pounds sterling of 72.9 million ($120.6 million) and euros of 7.0 million ($9.6 million). we are also exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory as well as the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the effect on our revenue from metal price fluctuations and inventory cost changes. therefore, we can experience positive or negative gross margin effects in periods of rising or falling metal prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. if market prices were to fall at a greater rate than our vehicle acquisition costs, we could experience a decline in gross margin. as of december 31, 2013 , we held short-term metals forward contracts to mitigate a portion of our exposure to fluctuations in metals prices specifically related to our precious metals refining and reclamation business acquired in 2012. the notional amount and fair value of these forward contracts at december 31, 2013 were immaterial. 45risk factors risks relating to our business our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic and political conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere. changes in economic and political conditions in the u.s. and other countries in which we are located or do business could have a material effect on our company. changes in such conditions have, in some periods, resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims, and a reduction of vehicle repairs, all of which could negatively affect our business. our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. the economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. many of these factors are outside of our control. if any of these conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 17 in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and interest rate swap transactions. these unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. similarly in europe, some local companies are part of cooperative efforts to compete in the aftermarket parts industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. the oems are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. from time to time, oems have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products. if such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. oems and other manufacturers have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the u.s. international trade commission. to the extent oems and other manufacturers are seeking and obtaining more design patents than they have in the past and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and defending their validity, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. in december 2005 and may 2008, ford global technologies, llc filed complaints with the international trade commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the u.s. infringed on ford design patents. the parties settled these matters in april 2009 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that expires in march 2015. in january 2014, chrysler group, llc filed a complaint against us in the u.s. district court in the eastern district of michigan contending that certain aftermarket parts we sell infringe chrysler design patents relating to the dodge ram pickup truck. the parties settled this matter in june 2014 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that expires in june 2019. in the event that these license arrangements, or other similar license arrangements with oems, are terminated or we are unable to agree upon renewal terms, we may be subject to costs and uncertainties of litigation as well as restrictions on our ability to sell aftermarket parts that replicate parts covered by design patents. an adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or auction companies or a disruption to our supply of inventory could increase our expenses and impede our ability to serve our customers. our business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from taiwan. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of whom are located in asia. if the cost of freight rose we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. furthermore, although 18 alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. in addition, we are subject to disruptions from work stoppages and other labor disputes at port facilities through which we import our inventory. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china, japan and taiwan. because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. additionally, as manufacturers convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process. most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and others. to the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. in addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the u.s. as we grow and our demand for salvage vehicles increases, the costs of these incremental vehicles could be higher. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. we rely upon insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts. our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative parts usage by automotive insurance companies. alternative parts usage has generally increased over the past ten years but has stabilized recently. there can be no assurance that such usage will be maintained or will increase in the future. in addition, in some places we operate, alternative parts usage is relatively low. we also rely on business relationships with insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ("avery v. state farm"), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of 19 additional recycled products. in addition, the federal trade commission (ftc) has issued guides which regulate the use of certain terms such as rebuilt or remanufactured in connection with the sale of automotive parts. restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. if these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. moreover, we may not be able to identify a sufficient number of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our growth objectives. also, over time, we will likely seek to make acquisitions that are relatively larger as we grow. larger acquisition candidates may attract additional competitive buyers, which could increase our cost or could cause us to lose such acquisitions. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse affects on our business; our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below our published financial guidance and the expectations of public markets, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline. fluctuations in the prices of metals and other commodities could adversely affect our financial results. 20 our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. in a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the prices of steel, aluminum, and plastics are components of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. if the price of commodities rise and result in higher costs to us for products we sell, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers. if we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2014, our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $2.3 billion. for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "goodwill impairment" in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. we amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, each of which is based upon the expected period to be benefited. we review other intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. in the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge. as of december 31, 2014, the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $246 million. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of cars being repaired declines, our business could suffer. our business depends on vehicle accidents and mechanical failures for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts. thus, our business is impacted by factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, the effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new oem parts, and the condition of roadways. additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease in vehicle accidents. moreover, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. systems designed to help drivers avoid accidents are becoming more prevalent and more technologically sophisticated. to the extent oems install or are mandated by law to install accident avoidance systems in their vehicles, the number and severity of accidents could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year. periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. substantial further declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. in addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such vehicles or there could be less costly repairs. if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by oem warranties for the first years of a 21 vehicle's life. moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles. our business may be adversely affected by union activities and labor laws. a small percentage of our employees are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. from time to time, there have been efforts to organize additional portions of our workforce and those efforts can be expected to continue. in addition, the u.s. department of labor or applicable foreign government agencies could adopt new regulations or interpret existing regulations that could make it significantly easier for unionization efforts to be successful. also, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements, and work stoppages could materially increase our costs and reduce revenue and could limit our flexibility in terms of work schedules, reductions in force and other operational matters. we also are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, such as the fair labor standards act, that govern such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. some of these laws are technical in nature and could be subject to interpretation by government agencies different than our interpretations. efforts to comply with existing laws, changes to such laws and newly-enacted laws may increase our labor costs. if we were found not to be in compliance with such laws, we could be subject to fines, penalties and liabilities to our employees or government agencies. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. some of the information technology systems and communication systems we use for management of our facilities and our financial functions are leased from or operated by other companies, while others are owned by us. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages of these or our own systems for whatever reason, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in the event that we decide to switch providers or to implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. our business involves the storage of personal information about our customers and employees. we have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect this information; however, if we experience a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to damage to our reputation, additional costs, lost sales or possible regulatory action. the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is constantly changing, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. there is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, and such a breach could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer 22 systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business. weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the closure of our distribution centers ( dc s) or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis. this may affect our ability to timely provide products to our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty. some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the united states or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices. such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective. the expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. the existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. regulations that may be issued under the anti-car theft act could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system 23 is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on automotive parts recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use of recycled products by such shops. we operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. we have operations in belgium, canada, france, mexico, sweden, the netherlands, taiwan and the u.k., and we may expand our operations in these countries and into other countries. our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the u.k. bribery act 2010 and the foreign corrupt practices act. we also incur costs in currencies, other than our functional currencies, in the countries in which we operate. we are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. in addition, mexico is currently experiencing a heightened level of criminal activity that could affect our ability to maintain our supply of certain aftermarket products. new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business . in august 2012, as mandated by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec adopted final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the democratic republic of congo (drc) or adjoining countries. these new requirements impose significant burdens on u.s. public companies. compliance with the rules requires substantial due diligence in an effort to determine whether products contain the conflict minerals. the results of such due diligence efforts must be disclosed on an annual basis in a filing with the sec. our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. we may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products free of conflict minerals in some circumstances, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary products from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. accordingly, these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. risks relating to our common stock and financial structure future sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, "securities") in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. the market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. the stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions. the market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. in addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline. additionally, the market price for our common stock has been in the past, and in the future may be, adversely affected by allegations made or reports issued by short sellers, analysts or others regarding our business model, our management or our financial accounting. following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often 24 been instituted against such companies. if similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. as of december 31, 2014, we had $ 1.9 billion aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding, including $ 664 million under our senior secured credit facilities, $ 600 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due 2023, $433.1 million under our term loan, and $ 95 million under our accounts receivable securitization program. as of december 31, 2014, we also had $ 1.1 billion of undrawn availability (after giving effect to approximately $ 60 million of outstanding letters of credit) under our revolving credit facilities and $ 2 million of undrawn availability under our accounts receivable securitization program. our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and increase our cost of borrowing. in addition, if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. although we are subject to our senior secured credit facilities for so long as they remain in effect, the indenture that governs the senior notes does not restrict the future incurrence of unsecured indebtedness, guarantees or other obligations. the indenture contains certain limitations on our ability to incur liens on assets, sell our assets, make dividends and distributions and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. however, these limitations are subject to important exceptions. in addition, the indenture does not contain many other restrictions, including certain restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities, including, without limitation, investments, incurring indebtedness or prepaying subordinated indebtedness or engaging in transactions with our affiliates. our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. 25 our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof); pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness; incur liens on assets; make certain investments or other restricted payments; engage in transactions with affiliates; sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies; guarantee indebtedness; and alter the business we conduct. as a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. additionally, the senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs our senior notes limit the use of the proceeds from certain dispositions of our assets; as a result, our senior secured credit facilities and our senior notes may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all of our debt service obligations. in addition, we are a holding company and repayment of our indebtedness is dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are borrowers or guarantors of the indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries and, under certain circumstances, distributions from our subsidiaries may be subject to significant taxes that reduce the amount of such distributions available to us. in the event that we do not receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events 26 that could have a negative effect on our business. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. funds may not be available or available on terms acceptable to us as a result of different factors, including but not limited to turmoil in the credit markets that results in the tightening of credit conditions and current or future regulations applicable to the financial institutions from whom we seek financing. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. in addition, there are restrictions in the indenture that governs our senior notes on our ability to refinance the notes prior to 2018. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly and could affect the value of our senior notes. certain borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and the borrowing under our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. moreover, changes in market interest rates could affect the trading value of our senior notes. a downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior notes. credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital. credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include, among other items, our results of operations, business decisions that we make, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the economy. actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading. we believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates. a downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our credit facilities. a downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our senior notes, preventing a holder from selling the notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affect our ability to issue new notes in the future or incur other indebtedness upon favorable terms. the right to receive payments on the senior notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. our obligations under the senior notes and our guarantors' obligations under their guarantees of the senior notes are unsecured, but our and each co-borrower's obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and each guarantor's obligations under their respective guarantees of the senior secured credit facilities are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of most of our wholly-owned united states subsidiaries and the stock of certain of our non-united states subsidiaries. if we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. if we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the senior notes, even if an event of default exists under the indenture governing the notes. furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under the senior notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the senior notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. in any such event, because the senior notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims by holders of the senior notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy claims fully. united states federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the senior notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the senior notes and the guarantees, and require holders of the senior notes to return payments received from us or the guarantors. our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are obligors under the senior secured credit facilities also guarantee the 27 obligations under the senior notes. our issuance of the senior notes and the issuance of the guarantees by the guarantors under the secured credit facilities and the senior notes may be subject to review under state and federal laws if a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or a lawsuit, including in circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future date by, or on behalf of, our unpaid creditors or the unpaid creditors of a guarantor. under the federal bankruptcy laws and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a court may avoid or otherwise decline to enforce the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or a guarantor's guarantee, or may subordinate the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or such guarantee to our or the applicable guarantor's existing and future indebtedness. while the relevant laws may vary from state to state, a court might do so if it found that when indebtedness under the senior secured credit facilities was incurred, or the senior notes were issued, or when the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee, or, in some states, when payments became due under the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or such guarantee, the borrower, the issuer or the applicable guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. a court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the senior secured credit facilities or the issuance of the senior notes. the measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. generally, however, a borrower, an issuer or a guarantor, as applicable, would be considered insolvent if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of its assets; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. a court might also void the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or a guarantee, without regard to the above factors, if the court found that the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes were incurred or issued or the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors. in addition, any payment by us or a guarantor pursuant to the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or its guarantee could be avoided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors, and accordingly the court might direct the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the holders of the senior notes to repay any amounts already received from us or such guarantor. although each guarantee will contain a savings clause intended to limit the subsidiary guarantor's liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its subsidiary guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective to protect any subsidiary guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer law. furthermore, in official committee of unsecured creditors of tousa, inc. v citicorp north america, inc., the united states bankruptcy court in the southern district of florida held that a savings clause similar to the savings clause included in the documents relating to our senior secured credit facilities and senior notes was unenforceable. as a result, the subsidiary guarantees were found to be fraudulent conveyances. the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit recently affirmed the liability findings of the bankruptcy court without ruling directly on the enforceability of savings clauses generally. if the tousa decision were followed by other courts, the risk that the guarantees would be deemed fraudulent conveyances would be significantly increased. to the extent a court avoids the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes or any of the guarantees as fraudulent transfers or holds the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes or any of the guarantees unenforceable for any other reason, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the holders of the senior notes, as the case may be, would cease to have any direct claim against us or the applicable guarantor. if a court were to take this action, our or the applicable guarantor's assets would be applied first to satisfy our or the applicable guarantor's other liabilities, if any, and might not be applied to the payment of the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes, as the case may be. sufficient funds to repay the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes may not be available from other sources, including the remaining guarantors, if any. not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our senior secured credit facilities or our senior notes, and the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on such obligations. 28 not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes. in the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves or otherwise winds up, holders of its indebtedness and its trade creditors generally will be entitled to payment on their claims from the assets of that subsidiary before any of those assets are made available to the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the holders of the senior notes. consequently, claims in respect of the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade payables, and any claims of third party holders of preferred equity interests, if any, in our non-guarantor subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2014, our subsidiaries that are not borrowers under or do not guarantee the senior secured credit facilities and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes represented approximately 33% and 25% of our total revenue and operating income, respectively. in addition, these non-guarantor subsidiaries represented approximately 35% and 36% of our total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of december 31, 2014 (excluding, in each case, intercompany amounts) with respect to both the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes. of these amounts, as of the same date, our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior secured credit facilities had approximately $647.6 million of outstanding indebtedness (which includes $523.9 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities by foreign subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facilities but that do not guarantee the notes). we may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control or pursuant to an asset sale offer. upon a change of control, as defined in the indenture governing the senior notes, the holders of the notes will have the right to require us to offer to purchase all of the notes then outstanding at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. such a change of control would also be an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities. in order to obtain sufficient funds to pay amounts due under the senior secured credit facilities and the purchase price of the outstanding senior notes, we expect that we would have to refinance our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness on reasonable terms, if at all. our failure to offer to purchase all outstanding senior notes or to purchase all validly tendered senior notes would be an event of default under the indenture. such an event of default may cause the acceleration of our other debt. our other debt also may contain restrictions on repayment requirements with respect to specified events or transactions that constitute a change of control under the indenture. the definition of change of control in the indenture governing the senior notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. there is no precise established definition of the phrase substantially all under applicable law. accordingly, the ability of a holder of senior notes to require us to repurchase its notes as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person may be uncertain. in addition, in certain circumstances as specified in the indenture governing the senior notes, we will be required to commence an asset sale offer, as defined in the indenture, pursuant to which we will be obligated to purchase certain senior notes at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest with the proceeds we receive from certain asset sales. our other debt may contain restrictions that would limit or prohibit us from completing any such asset sale offer. in particular, our senior secured credit facilities contain provisions that require us, upon the sale of certain assets, to apply all of the proceeds from such asset sale to the prepayment of amounts due under the senior secured credit facilities. the mandatory prepayment obligations under the senior secured credit facilities will be effectively senior to our obligations to make an asset sale offer with respect to the senior notes under the terms of the indenture. our failure to purchase any such senior notes when required under the indenture would be an event of default under the indenture. key terms of the senior notes will be suspended if the notes achieve investment grade ratings and no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. many of the covenants in the indenture governing the senior notes will be suspended if the notes are rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's provided at such time no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, including those covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur liens and to enter into certain other transactions. there can be no assurance that the senior notes will ever be rated investment grade. however, suspension of these covenants would allow us to engage in certain transactions that would not be permitted while these covenants were in force (although provisions under our other debt, like the senior secured credit facilities, may continue to restrict us from engaging in these transactions), and the effects of any such transactions will be permitted to remain in place even if the senior notes are subsequently downgraded below investment grade. the liquidity and market value of the senior notes may change due to a variety of factors. the liquidity of any trading market in the senior notes, and the market price quoted for the senior notes, may be adversely 29 affected by changes in the overall market for these types of securities, changes in interest rates, changes in our ratings, and changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industries generally. we rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity. we have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market. this arrangement expires in october 2017. in the event that the market for commercial paper were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facilities, where interest rates are tied to the prime rate, libor or cdor. therefore, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching the currency, effective dates and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts are included as adjustments to interest expense. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a., bank of america, n.a. and rbs citizens, n.a.). as of december 31, 2014 , we held six interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $420 million of u.s. dollar-denominated notional amount debt, 50 million of pound sterling-denominated notional amount debt, and cad $25 million of canadian dollar-denominated notional amount debt. our interest rate swap contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. these swaps have maturity dates ranging from october 2015 through december 2016. in total, we had 47% of our variable rate debt under our credit facilities at fixed rates at december 31, 2014 compared to 78% at december 31, 2013, which reflects the increase in borrowings during 2014 to finance our acquisitions. as of december 31, 2014 , the fair market value of these swap contracts was a net liability of $5.2 million . the values of such contracts are subject to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2014 , we had $673 million of variable rate debt that was not hedged. using sensitivity analysis, a 100 basis point movement in interest rates would change interest expense by $6.7 million over the next twelve months. the proceeds of our may 2013 senior notes offering were used to finance our euro-denominated acquisition of sator, as well as to repay a portion of our pound sterling-denominated revolver borrowings held by our european operations. in connection with these transactions, in 2013 we entered into euro-denominated and pound sterling-denominated intercompany notes, which incurred transaction gains and losses from fluctuations in the u.s. dollar against these currencies. to mitigate these fluctuations, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts to sell 150.0 million for $195.0 million and 70.0 million for $105.8 million. the gains or losses from the remeasurement of these contracts are recorded to earnings to offset the remeasurement of the related notes. during the year ended december 31, 2014 , we settled these forward contracts through payments to the counterparties totaling $20.0 million. while there are no such forward contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2014, we may enter into additional foreign currency forward contracts from time to time to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on similar intercompany financing transactions. additionally, we are exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products from foreign countries. the majority of our foreign inventory purchases are from manufacturers based in taiwan. while our transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket products. our aftermarket operations in canada, which also purchase inventory from taiwan in u.s. dollars, are further subject to changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the canadian dollar. our aftermarket operations in the u.k. also source a portion of their inventory from taiwan, as well as from other european countries and china, resulting in exposure to changes in the relationship of the pound sterling against the euro and the u.s. dollar. we hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations for certain of our purchases in our european operations, but the notional amount and fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2014 were immaterial. we do not currently attempt to hedge our foreign currency exposure related to our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in our north american operations, and we may not be able to pass on any price increases to our customers. foreign currency fluctuations may also impact the financial results we report for the portions of our business that operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our operations in europe and other countries represented 33.2% and 30% of our revenue during 2014 and 2013, respectively. an increase or decrease in the strength of the u.s. dollar against these currencies by 10% would result in a 3% change in our consolidated revenue and our operating income for the year ended december 31, 2014 . other than with respect to our intercompany transactions denominated in euro and pound sterling and a portion of our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in the u.k., we do not hold derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency risk. our net investment in foreign operations is partially hedged by the foreign currency denominated borrowings we use to fund foreign acquisitions. additionally, we have elected not to hedge the foreign currency risk related to the interest payments on these borrowings as we generate canadian dollar, pound sterling and euro cash flows that can be used to fund debt payments. as of december 31, 2014 , we had amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facilities of 216.5 million, 96.2 million, and cad $130.4 million. as of december 31, 2013, we had amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facilities of 7.0 million, 72.9 million, and cad $110.0 million. since december 31, 2013, we have replaced certain of our 54 u.s. dollar denominated borrowings with foreign-currency denominated borrowings, primarily in europe, which more closely aligns the functional currency of our borrowings and the cash flows used to fund debt payments. we are also exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory as well as the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the effect on our revenue from metal price fluctuations and inventory cost changes. therefore, we can experience positive or negative gross margin effects in periods of rising or falling metals prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. if market prices were to fall at a greater rate than our vehicle acquisition costs, we could experience a decline in gross margin. scrap metal and other metal prices declined 15% sequentially in the fourth quarter of 2014, which had a negative effect on our revenue and margins. this trend will continue until inventory costs decrease by an amount commensurate with the decline of scrap metal and other metal prices. as of december 31, 2014 , we held short-term metals forward contracts to mitigate a portion of our exposure to fluctuations in metals prices specifically related to our precious metals refining and reclamation business. the notional amount and fair value of these forward contracts at december 31, 2014 were immaterial. 55risk factors risks relating to our business our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic and political conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere. changes in economic and political conditions in the u.s. and other countries in which we are located or do business could have a material effect on our company. changes in such conditions have, in some periods, resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims, and a reduction of vehicle repairs, all of which could negatively affect our business. our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. the economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. many of these factors are outside of our control. if any of these conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and interest rate swap transactions. these unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. similarly in europe, some local companies 18 are part of cooperative efforts to compete in the aftermarket parts industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. the oems are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. from time to time, the oems have implemented programs seeking to increase their market share in the collision repair parts industry. for example, they have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products and with other initiatives that may disrupt our sales. if such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. we rely upon our customers and insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts. our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative parts usage by automotive insurance companies. there can be no assurance that current levels of alternative parts usage will be maintained or will increase in the future. in addition, in some places we operate, alternative parts usage is relatively low. we also rely on business relationships with insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ("avery v. state farm"), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. in addition, to the extent that the collision repair industry continues to consolidate, the buying power of collision repair shop customers may further increase, putting additional pressure on our financial returns. we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms, if we do not obtain antitrust or other regulatory approvals on applicable terms, or for other reasons. moreover, we may not be able to identify a sufficient number of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our growth objectives. also, over time, we will likely seek to make acquisitions that are relatively larger as we grow. larger acquisition candidates may attract additional competitive buyers, which could increase our cost or could cause us to lose such acquisitions. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; 19 we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse affects on our business; our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. oems and other manufacturers have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the u.s. international trade commission. to the extent oems and other manufacturers are seeking and obtaining more design patents than they have in the past and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and defending their validity, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. in december 2005 and may 2008, ford global technologies, llc filed complaints with the international trade commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the u.s. infringed on ford design patents. the parties settled these matters in april 2009 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that expires in march 2020. in january 2014, chrysler group, llc filed a complaint against us in the u.s. district court in the eastern district of michigan contending that certain aftermarket parts we sell infringe chrysler design patents relating to the dodge ram pickup truck. the parties settled this matter in june 2014 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that expires in june 2019. in the event that these license arrangements, or other similar license arrangements with oems, are terminated or we are unable to agree upon renewal terms, we may be subject to costs and uncertainties of litigation as well as restrictions on our ability to sell aftermarket parts that replicate parts covered by design patents. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of cars being repaired declines, our business could suffer. our business depends on vehicle accidents and mechanical failures for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts. thus, our business is impacted by factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, the effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new oem parts, and the condition of roadways. for example, an increase of the acceptance of the ride-sharing business model would reduce the number of vehicles on the road. additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease in vehicle accidents. moreover, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. systems designed to help drivers avoid accidents are becoming more prevalent and more technologically sophisticated. to the extent oems install or are mandated by law to install accident avoidance systems in their vehicles, the number and severity of accidents could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year. periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. substantial further declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. in addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such vehicles or there could be less costly repairs. if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by oem warranties for the first years of a vehicle's life. moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles. 20 fluctuations in the prices of metals and other commodities could adversely affect our financial results. our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. in a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the prices of steel, aluminum, and plastics are components of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. if the price of commodities rise and result in higher costs to us for products we sell, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers. we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. in addition, the federal trade commission (ftc) has issued guides which regulate the use of certain terms such as rebuilt or remanufactured in connection with the sale of automotive parts. restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. if these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. an adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or auction companies or a disruption to our supply of inventory could increase our expenses and impede our ability to serve our customers. our business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from taiwan. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of which are located in asia. if the cost of freight rose we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. furthermore, although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. in addition, we are subject to disruptions from work stoppages and other labor disputes at port facilities through which we import our inventory. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china, japan and taiwan. because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. additionally, as manufacturers convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process. most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and others. to the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these 21 regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. in addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the u.s. as we grow and our demand for salvage vehicles increases, the costs of these incremental vehicles could be higher. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below our published financial guidance and the expectations of public markets, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. we have operations in belgium, canada, france, mexico, sweden, the netherlands, taiwan and the u.k., and we may expand our operations in these countries and into other countries. our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the u.k. bribery act 2010 and the foreign corrupt practices act. we also incur costs in currencies, other than our functional currencies, in the countries in which we operate. we are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. in addition, mexico is currently experiencing a heightened level of criminal activity that could affect our ability to maintain our supply of certain aftermarket products. if we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2015, our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $2.3 billion. for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "goodwill impairment" in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. we amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, each of which is based upon the expected period to be benefited. we review other intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. in the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge. as of december 31, 2015, the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $215 million. our business may be adversely affected by union activities and labor laws. a small percentage of our employees are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. from time to time, there have been efforts to organize additional portions of our workforce and those efforts can be expected to continue. in addition, the u.s. department of labor or applicable foreign government agencies could adopt new regulations or interpret existing regulations that could make it significantly easier for unionization efforts to be successful. also, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements, and work stoppages could materially increase our costs and reduce revenue and could limit our flexibility in terms of work schedules, reductions in force and other operational matters. 22 we also are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, such as the fair labor standards act, that govern such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. some of these laws are technical in nature and could be subject to interpretation by government agencies different than our interpretations. efforts to comply with existing laws, changes to such laws and newly-enacted laws may increase our labor costs. if we were found not to be in compliance with such laws, we could be subject to fines, penalties and liabilities to our employees or government agencies. we rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. some of the information technology systems and communication systems we use for management of our facilities and our financial functions are leased from or operated by other companies, while others are owned by us. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages of these or our own systems for whatever reason, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in the event that we decide to switch providers or to implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. our business involves the storage of personal information about our customers and employees. we have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect this information; however, if we experience a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to damage to our reputation, additional costs, lost sales or possible regulatory action. the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is constantly changing, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. there is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, and such a breach could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business. weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the closure of our distribution centers ( dc s) or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis. this may affect our ability to timely provide products to our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty. some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the united states or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices. such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective. the expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 23 we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. the existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries in our salvage, self-service, and refurbishing operations must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business . in august 2012, as mandated by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec adopted final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the democratic republic of congo (drc) or adjoining countries. these new requirements impose significant burdens on u.s. public companies. compliance with the rules requires substantial due diligence in an effort to determine whether products contain the conflict minerals. the results of such due diligence efforts must be disclosed on an annual basis in a filing with the sec. our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. we may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products free of conflict minerals in some circumstances, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary products from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. accordingly, these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. regulations that may be issued under the anti-car theft act could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on automotive parts recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use of recycled products by such shops. risks relating to our common stock and financial structure the market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. the stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions. the market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. in addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline. additionally, the market price for our common stock has been in the past, and in the future may be, 24 adversely affected by allegations made or reports issued by short sellers, analysts or others regarding our business model, our management or our financial accounting. following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. if similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, "securities") in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. as of december 31, 2015, we had $ 1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding, including $ 480 million under our senior secured credit facilities, $ 600 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due 2023, $410.6 million under our term loan, and $ 63 million under our accounts receivable securitization program. as of december 31, 2015, we also had $ 1.3 billion of undrawn availability (after giving effect to approximately $ 66 million of outstanding letters of credit) under our revolving credit facilities and $ 34 million of undrawn availability under our accounts receivable securitization program. on january 29, 2016, we entered into an amendment to our senior secured credit facility to increase the capacity to $3.2 billion (composed of approximately $750 million in term loans and $2.45 billion in a multicurrency revolving credit line). the credit facility matures in january 2021. our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and increase our cost of borrowing. in addition, if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. 25 although we are subject to our senior secured credit facilities for so long as they remain in effect, the indenture that governs the senior notes does not restrict the future incurrence of unsecured indebtedness, guarantees or other obligations. the indenture contains certain limitations on our ability to incur liens on assets, sell our assets, make dividends and distributions and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. however, these limitations are subject to important exceptions. in addition, the indenture does not contain many other restrictions, including certain restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities, including, without limitation, restrictions on investments, incurring indebtedness or prepaying subordinated indebtedness or engaging in transactions with our affiliates. our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof); pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness; incur liens on assets; make certain investments or other restricted payments; engage in transactions with affiliates; sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies; guarantee indebtedness; and alter the business we conduct. as a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. additionally, the senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs our senior notes limit the use of the proceeds from certain dispositions of our assets; as a result, our senior secured credit facilities and our senior notes may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all of our debt service obligations. in addition, we are a holding company and repayment of our indebtedness is dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are borrowers or guarantors of the indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries 26 and, under certain circumstances, distributions from our subsidiaries may be subject to significant taxes that reduce the amount of such distributions available to us. in the event that we do not receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. funds may not be available or available on terms acceptable to us as a result of different factors, including but not limited to turmoil in the credit markets that results in the tightening of credit conditions and current or future regulations applicable to the financial institutions from whom we seek financing. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. in addition, there are restrictions in the indenture that governs our senior notes on our ability to refinance the notes prior to 2018. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly and could affect the value of our senior notes. certain borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and the borrowing under our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. moreover, changes in market interest rates could affect the trading value of our senior notes. a downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior notes. credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital. credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include, among other items, our results of operations, business decisions that we make, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the economy. actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading. we believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates. a downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our credit facilities. a downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our senior notes, preventing a holder from selling the notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affect our ability to issue new notes in the future or incur other indebtedness upon favorable terms. the right to receive payments on the senior notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. our obligations under the senior notes and our guarantors' obligations under their guarantees of the senior notes are unsecured, but our and each co-borrower's obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and each guarantor's obligations under their respective guarantees of the senior secured credit facilities are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of most of our wholly-owned united states subsidiaries and the stock of certain of our non-united states subsidiaries. if we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. if we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the senior notes, even if an event of default exists under the indenture governing the notes. furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under the senior notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the senior notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. in any such event, because the senior notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims by holders of the senior notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy claims fully. united states federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the senior notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the senior notes and the guarantees, and require holders of the senior notes to return payments received from us or the guarantors. our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are obligors under the senior secured credit facilities also guarantee the 27 obligations under the senior notes. our issuance of the senior notes and the issuance of the guarantees by the guarantors under the secured credit facilities and the senior notes may be subject to review under state and federal laws if a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or a lawsuit, including in circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future date by, or on behalf of, our unpaid creditors or the unpaid creditors of a guarantor. under the federal bankruptcy laws and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a court may avoid or otherwise decline to enforce the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or a guarantor's guarantee, or may subordinate the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or such guarantee to our or the applicable guarantor's existing and future indebtedness. while the relevant laws may vary from state to state, a court might do so if it found that when indebtedness under the senior secured credit facilities was incurred, or the senior notes were issued, or when the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee, or, in some states, when payments became due under the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or such guarantee, the borrower, the issuer or the applicable guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. a court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the senior secured credit facilities or the issuance of the senior notes. the measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. generally, however, a borrower, an issuer or a guarantor, as applicable, would be considered insolvent if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of its assets; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. a court might also void the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or a guarantee, without regard to the above factors, if the court found that the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes were incurred or issued or the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors. in addition, any payment by us or a guarantor pursuant to the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or its guarantee could be avoided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors, and accordingly the court might direct the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the holders of the senior notes to repay any amounts already received from us or such guarantor. although each guarantee contains a savings clause intended to limit the subsidiary guarantor's liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its subsidiary guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective to protect any subsidiary guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer law. furthermore, in official committee of unsecured creditors of tousa, inc. v citicorp north america, inc., the united states bankruptcy court in the southern district of florida held that a savings clause similar to the savings clause included in the documents relating to our senior secured credit facilities and senior notes was unenforceable. as a result, the subsidiary guarantees were found to be fraudulent conveyances. the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit recently affirmed the liability findings of the bankruptcy court without ruling directly on the enforceability of savings clauses generally. if the tousa decision were followed by other courts, the risk that the guarantees would be deemed fraudulent conveyances would be significantly increased. to the extent a court avoids the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes or any of the guarantees as fraudulent transfers or holds the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes or any of the guarantees unenforceable for any other reason, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the holders of the senior notes, as the case may be, would cease to have any direct claim against us or the applicable guarantor. if a court were to take this action, our or the applicable guarantor's assets would be applied first to satisfy our or the applicable guarantor's other liabilities, if any, and might not be applied to the payment of the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes, as the case may be. sufficient funds to repay the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes may not be available from other sources, including the remaining guarantors, if any. not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our senior secured credit facilities or our senior notes, and the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on such obligations. not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes. in the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves or otherwise winds up, holders of its indebtedness and its trade creditors generally will be entitled to payment on their claims from the assets of that subsidiary 28 before any of those assets are made available to the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the holders of the senior notes. consequently, claims in respect of the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade payables, and any claims of third party holders of preferred equity interests, if any, in our non-guarantor subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2015, our subsidiaries that are not borrowers under or do not guarantee the senior secured credit facilities and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes represented approximately 33% and 26% of our total revenue and operating income, respectively. in addition, these non-guarantor subsidiaries represented approximately 35% and 37% of our total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of december 31, 2015 (excluding, in each case, intercompany amounts) with respect to both the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes. of these amounts, as of the same date, our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior secured credit facilities had approximately $543.5 million of outstanding indebtedness (which includes $480.5 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities by foreign subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facilities but that do not guarantee the notes). we may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control or pursuant to an asset sale offer. upon a change of control, as defined in the indenture governing the senior notes, the holders of the notes will have the right to require us to offer to purchase all of the notes then outstanding at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. such a change of control would also be an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities. in order to obtain sufficient funds to pay amounts due under the senior secured credit facilities and the purchase price of the outstanding senior notes, we expect that we would have to refinance our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness on reasonable terms, if at all. our failure to offer to purchase all outstanding senior notes or to purchase all validly tendered senior notes would be an event of default under the indenture. such an event of default may cause the acceleration of our other debt. our other debt also may contain restrictions on repayment requirements with respect to specified events or transactions that constitute a change of control under the indenture. the definition of change of control in the indenture governing the senior notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. there is no precise established definition of the phrase substantially all under applicable law. accordingly, the ability of a holder of senior notes to require us to repurchase its notes as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person may be uncertain. in addition, in certain circumstances as specified in the indenture governing the senior notes, we will be required to commence an asset sale offer, as defined in the indenture, pursuant to which we will be obligated to purchase certain senior notes at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest with the proceeds we receive from certain asset sales. our other debt may contain restrictions that would limit or prohibit us from completing any such asset sale offer. in particular, our senior secured credit facilities contain provisions that require us, upon the sale of certain assets, to apply all of the proceeds from such asset sale to the prepayment of amounts due under the senior secured credit facilities. the mandatory prepayment obligations under the senior secured credit facilities will be effectively senior to our obligations to make an asset sale offer with respect to the senior notes under the terms of the indenture. our failure to purchase any such senior notes when required under the indenture would be an event of default under the indenture. key terms of the senior notes will be suspended if the notes achieve investment grade ratings and no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. many of the covenants in the indenture governing the senior notes will be suspended if the notes are rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's provided at such time no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, including those covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur liens and to enter into certain other transactions. there can be no assurance that the senior notes will ever be rated investment grade. however, suspension of these covenants would allow us to engage in certain transactions that would not be permitted while these covenants were in force (although provisions under our other debt, like the senior secured credit facilities, may continue to restrict us from engaging in these transactions), and the effects of any such transactions will be permitted to remain in place even if the senior notes are subsequently downgraded below investment grade. the liquidity and market value of the senior notes may change due to a variety of factors. the liquidity of any trading market in the senior notes, and the market price quoted for the senior notes, may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for these types of securities, changes in interest rates, changes in our ratings, and changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industries generally. we rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity. we have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market. this arrangement expires in october 2017. in the event that the market for commercial paper were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether. 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facilities, where interest rates are tied to the prime rate, libor or cdor. therefore, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching the currency, effective dates and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts are included as adjustments to interest expense. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a., bank of america, n.a. and rbs citizens, n.a.). as of december 31, 2015 , we held five interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $170 million of u.s. dollar-denominated notional amount debt, 50 million of pound sterling-denominated notional amount debt, and cad $25 million of canadian dollar-denominated notional amount debt. our interest rate swap contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. these swaps have maturity dates ranging from march 2016 through december 2016. in total, we had 29% of our variable rate debt under our credit facilities at fixed rates at december 31, 2015 compared to 47% at december 31, 2014. as of december 31, 2015 , the fair market value of these swap contracts was a net liability of $1.3 million . the values of such contracts are subject to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2015 , we had $692 million of variable rate debt that was not hedged. using sensitivity analysis, a 100 basis point movement in interest rates would change interest expense by $6.9 million over the next twelve months. in january 2016, we entered into four interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $200 million of u.s. dollar-denominated debt. in february 2016, we entered into four additional interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $240 million of u.s. dollar-denominated debt. all new swaps mature in january 2021. further information regarding our interest rate swaps is included in note 5, "derivative instruments and hedging activities " to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. the proceeds of our may 2013 senior notes offering were used to finance our euro-denominated acquisition of sator, as well as to repay a portion of our pound sterling-denominated revolver borrowings held by our european operations. in connection with these transactions, in 2013 we entered into euro-denominated and pound sterling-denominated intercompany notes, which incurred transaction gains and losses from fluctuations in the u.s. dollar against these currencies. to mitigate these fluctuations, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts to sell 150.0 million for $195.0 million and 70.0 million for $105.8 million. the gains or losses from the remeasurement of these contracts are recorded to earnings to offset the remeasurement of the related notes. during the year ended december 31, 2014, we settled these forward contracts through payments to the counterparties totaling $20.0 million. while there are no such forward contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2015, we may enter into additional foreign currency forward contracts from time to time to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on similar intercompany financing transactions. additionally, we are exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products from foreign countries. the majority of our foreign inventory purchases are from manufacturers based in taiwan. while our transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket products. our aftermarket operations in canada, which also purchase inventory from taiwan in u.s. dollars, are further subject to changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the canadian dollar. our aftermarket operations in the u.k. also source a portion of their inventory from taiwan, as well as from other european countries and china, resulting in exposure to changes in the relationship of the pound sterling against the euro and the u.s. dollar. we hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations for certain of our purchases in our european operations, but the notional amount and fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2015 were immaterial. we do not currently attempt to hedge our foreign currency exposure related to our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in our north american operations, and we may not be able to pass on any price increases to our customers. foreign currency fluctuations may also impact the financial results we report for the portions of our business that operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our operations in europe and other countries represented 32.8% and 33.2% of our revenue during 2015 and 2014, respectively. an increase or decrease in the strength of the u.s. dollar against these currencies by 10% would result in a 3% change in our consolidated revenue and our operating income for the year ended december 31, 2015 . other than with respect to our intercompany transactions denominated in euro and pound sterling and a portion of our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in the u.k., we do not hold derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency risk. our net investment in foreign operations is partially hedged by the foreign currency denominated borrowings we use to fund foreign acquisitions. additionally, we have elected not to hedge the foreign currency risk related to the interest payments 59 on these borrowings as we generate canadian dollar, pound sterling and euro cash flows that can be used to fund debt payments. as of december 31, 2015 , we had amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facilities of 247.7 million, 73.3 million, cad $130.4 million, and kr78.0 million. as of december 31, 2014, we had amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facilities of 216.5 million, 96.2 million, and cad $130.4 million. since december 31, 2013, we have replaced certain of our u.s. dollar denominated borrowings with foreign-currency denominated borrowings, primarily in europe, which more closely aligns the functional currency of our borrowings and the cash flows used to fund debt payments. we are also exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory as well as the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the effect on our revenue from metal price fluctuations and inventory cost changes and there is no guarantee that the car costs will decrease at the same rate as the metal prices. therefore, we can experience positive or negative gross margin effects in periods of rising or falling metals prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. if market prices were to fall at a greater rate than our vehicle acquisition costs, we could experience a decline in operating margin. scrap metal and other metal prices declined in 2015 and have decreased 56% since the fourth quarter of 2014. as of december 31, 2015 , we held short-term metals forward contracts to mitigate a portion of our exposure to fluctuations in metals prices specifically related to our precious metals refining and reclamation business. the notional amount and fair value of these forward contracts at december 31, 2015 were immaterial. 60risk factors our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic and political conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere. changes in economic and political conditions in the u.s. and other countries in which we are located or do business could have a material effect on our company. changes in such conditions have, in some periods, resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims, and a reduction of vehicle repairs, all of which could negatively affect our business. the number of new vehicles produced and sold by manufacturers affects our business. a decrease in the number of vehicles on the road results in a decrease in accidents requiring repairs. moreover, we supply vehicle glass directly to vehicle manufacturers, and a decrease in the number of vehicles produced would result in a decrease in the demand for our glass products. 10 our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. the economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. many of these factors are outside of our control. if any of these conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and hedge transactions. these unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have a substantial business presence in europe, including a significant presence in the united kingdom. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom decided by referendum to withdraw from the european union. the precise timing and impacts of this action on our businesses in the united kingdom and other parts of europe are unknown at this time. since the vote, we have seen fluctuations in exchange rates leading to pricing pressures and unfavorable translation effects on our sterling denominated earnings. as the details of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union are negotiated and implemented, our european businesses could be adversely affected as a result of further fluctuations in exchange rates, disruptions to access to markets by united kingdom companies, interruptions of the movement of goods and services between countries, a decrease of economic activity in europe, and political or social unrest. we face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. similarly in europe, some local companies are part of cooperative efforts to compete in the aftermarket parts industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors of alternative aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured collision parts like us. the oems are therefore able to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. from time to time, the oems have implemented programs seeking to increase their market share in the collision repair parts industry. for example, they have reduced prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products and introduced other rebate programs that may disrupt our sales. the growth of these programs or the introduction of new ones could have a material adverse impact on our business. we rely upon our customers and insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts. our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative collision parts usage by automotive insurance companies. there can be no assurance that current levels of alternative parts usage will be maintained or will increase in the future. alternative part usage in the u.s. has been relatively flat over the last three years. in addition, in some places we operate, alternative parts usage is relatively low. we also rely on business relationships with insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ("avery v. state farm"), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss 11 condition." the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. in addition, to the extent that the collision repair industry continues to consolidate, the buying power of collision repair shop customers may further increase, putting additional pressure on our financial returns. we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms, if we do not obtain antitrust or other regulatory approvals on applicable terms, or for other reasons. moreover, we may not be able to identify a sufficient number of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our growth objectives. also, over time, we will likely seek to make acquisitions that are relatively larger as we grow. larger acquisition candidates may attract additional competitive buyers, which could increase our cost or could cause us to lose such acquisitions. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse effects on our business; our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. oems and other manufacturers have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the u.s. international trade commission. to the extent oems and other manufacturers are seeking and obtaining more design patents than they have in the past and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and defending their validity, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. in december 2005 and may 2008, ford global technologies, llc filed complaints with the international trade commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the u.s. infringed on ford design patents. the parties settled these matters in april 2009 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that is currently scheduled to expire in march 2020. in january 2014, chrysler group, llc filed a complaint against us in the u.s. district court in the 12 eastern district of michigan contending that certain aftermarket parts we sell infringe chrysler design patents. the parties settled this matter in june 2014 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that expires in june 2019. in the event that these license arrangements, or other similar license arrangements with oems, are terminated or we are unable to agree upon renewal terms, we may be subject to costs and uncertainties of litigation as well as restrictions on our ability to sell aftermarket parts that replicate parts covered by design patents. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of cars being repaired declines, our business could suffer. our business depends on vehicle accidents and mechanical failures for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts. to the extent that a relatively higher percentage of damaged vehicles are declared total losses, there will be less demand for our products to repair such vehicles. in addition, our business is impacted by factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, drivers distracted by electronic equipment, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, the effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new oem parts, and the condition of roadways. for example, an increase of the acceptance of the ride-sharing business model would reduce the number of vehicles on the road. additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease in vehicle accidents. moreover, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. systems designed to help drivers avoid accidents are becoming more prevalent and more technologically sophisticated. to the extent oems install or are mandated by law to install accident avoidance systems in their vehicles, the number and severity of accidents could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year. periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. substantial further declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. in addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such vehicles or there could be less costly repairs. if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by oem warranties for the first years of a vehicle's life. moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles. electric vehicles do not have traditional engines, our biggest selling product. thus, an increase in electric vehicles as a percentage of vehicles sold will have a negative impact on our engine sales. fluctuations in the prices of metals and other commodities could adversely affect our financial results. our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been processed in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. in a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the prices of steel, aluminum, and plastics are components of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. if the prices of commodities rise and result in higher costs to us for products we sell, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers. existing or new laws and regulations may prohibit, restrict or burden the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work. these laws include requirements relating to consumer disclosure, vehicle owner's consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent testing organization. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. 13 certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. if these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product, or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. the passage of legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our business. additionally, congress could enact federal legislation restricting the use of aftermarket or recycled automotive products used in the course of vehicle repairs. the federal trade commission (ftc) has issued guides which regulate the use of certain terms such as rebuilt or remanufactured in connection with the sale of automotive parts. restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use by such shops of recycled products. there is no pending initiative to implement the parts registration from a law enforcement point of view. however, there is a risk that a heightened legislative concern over safety of parts might precipitate an effort to push for the implementation of such rules. an adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or auction companies or a disruption to our supply of inventory could increase our expenses and impede our ability to serve our customers. our business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from taiwan. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of which are located in asia. if the cost of freight rose, we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. furthermore, although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. in addition, we are subject to disruptions from work stoppages and other labor disputes at port facilities through which we import our inventory. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china, japan and taiwan. the current u.s. administration has discussed the implementation of a tariff on imports into the u.s., the imposition of which would likely have a negative impact on our business due to the amount of inventory we import. because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. additionally, as oems convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process. most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and other bidders. to the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. in addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the u.s. as we grow and our demand for salvage vehicles increases, the costs of these incremental vehicles could be higher. in some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a 14 salvage title is issued. whether states issue salvage titles is important to the supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. currently, these titling issues are a matter of state law. in 1992, the u.s. congress commissioned an advisory committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. the vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. however, certain interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. national legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the future. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below our published financial guidance and the expectations of public markets, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. we have operations in north america, europe, taiwan and china, and we may expand our operations in the countries in which we do business and into other countries. our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the u.k. bribery act 2010 and the foreign corrupt practices act. we also incur costs in currencies other than our functional currencies in some of the countries in which we operate. we are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. in addition, certain countries in which we operate have a higher level of political instability and criminal activity relative to the u.s. that could affect our operations and the ability to maintain our supply of products. if we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2016, our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $3.1 billion . for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "goodwill impairment" in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. we amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, each of which is based upon the expected period to be benefited. we review other intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. in the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge. as of december 31, 2016, the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $584 million . 15 our business may be adversely affected by union activities and labor and employment laws. certain of our employees are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. from time to time, there have been efforts to organize additional portions of our workforce and those efforts can be expected to continue. in addition, the u.s. department of labor or applicable foreign government agencies could adopt new regulations or interpret existing regulations that could make it significantly easier for unionization efforts to be successful. also, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, and other labor disruptions and disputes. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements, and work stoppages could materially increase our costs and reduce revenue and could limit our flexibility in terms of work schedules, reductions in force and other operational matters. we also are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, such as the fair labor standards act, that govern such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. some of these laws are technical in nature and could be subject to interpretation by government agencies different than our interpretations. efforts to comply with existing laws, changes to such laws and newly-enacted laws may increase our labor costs. if we were found not to be in compliance with such laws, we could be subject to fines, penalties and liabilities to our employees or government agencies. we rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. some of the information technology systems and communication systems we use for management of our facilities and our financial functions are leased from or operated by other companies, while others are owned by us. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages of these or our own systems for whatever reason, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in the event that we decide to switch providers or to implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. we believe we have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect our information systems and personal information about our customers and employees; however, if we experience a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to damage to our reputation, additional costs, lost sales or possible regulatory action. the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is constantly changing, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. there is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to our systems and personal data are adequate to safeguard against all security breaches, and such a breach could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business. weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the closure of our distribution centers ( dc s) or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis. this may affect our ability to serve our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty. some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the u.s. or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices. such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. we have an environmental management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements. we cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements. we have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to environmental matters. although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other environmental matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future. 16 under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. as a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination. these environmental laws also impose liability on any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be a successor to such person. third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze, transmission fluid, chlorofluorocarbons ("cfcs") from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur from the release of the plating material. contamination can migrate on-site or off-site which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability. when we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks, and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and quantify the extent of the potential contamination. furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. in the event we discover new information or if laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective. the expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. the existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries in our salvage, self-service, and refurbishing operations must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business . in august 2012, as mandated by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec adopted final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the democratic republic of congo (drc) or adjoining countries. these new requirements impose significant burdens on u.s. public companies. compliance with the rules requires substantial due diligence in an effort to determine whether products contain the conflict minerals. the results of such due diligence efforts must be disclosed on an annual basis in a filing with the sec. our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. we may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products free of conflict minerals in some circumstances, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary products from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may face 17 reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. accordingly, these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our common stock and financial structure the market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. the stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions. the market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. in addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline. additionally, the market price for our common stock has been in the past, and in the future may be, adversely affected by allegations made or reports issued by short sellers, analysts, activists or others regarding our business model, our management or our financial accounting. following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. if similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, "securities") in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately $2.2 billion aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1.1 billion of availability under the senior secured credit facilities (without giving effect to approximately $72.7 million of letters of credit outstanding). in addition, we had approximately $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured debt outstanding comprising $600 million aggregate principal amount of the 4.75% senior notes due 2023 (the "u.s. notes") and 500 million ( $526 million ) aggregate principal amount of the senior notes due april 1, 2024 (the "euro notes," and together with the u.s. notes, the "senior notes"). our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. for example, our debt and our debt service obligations could: 18 increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and increase our cost of borrowing. in addition, if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. our senior notes do not impose any limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or protect against certain other types of transactions. although we are subject to our senior secured credit facilities for so long as they remain in effect, the indenture governing the u.s. notes and the indenture governing the euro notes do not restrict the future incurrence of unsecured indebtedness, guarantees or other obligations. the indentures contain certain limitations on our ability to incur liens on assets and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. however, these limitations are subject to important exceptions. in addition, the indentures do not contain many other restrictions, including certain restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities, including, without limitation, investments or prepaying subordinated indebtedness or engaging in transactions with our affiliates. our senior secured credit facilities will permit, subject to specified conditions and limitations, the incurrence of a significant amount of additional indebtedness. as of december 31, 2016, we would have been able to incur an additional $1.1 billion of indebtedness under our revolving credit facility (without giving effect to approximately $72.7 million of outstanding letters of credit). if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof); pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness; incur liens on assets; make certain investments or other restricted payments; engage in transactions with affiliates; sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies; guarantee indebtedness; and alter the business we conduct. as a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. 19 we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. additionally, the senior secured credit facilities and the indentures that govern our senior notes limit the use of the proceeds from certain dispositions of our assets; as a result, our senior secured credit facilities and our senior notes may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all of our debt service obligations. in addition, we are a holding company and repayment of our indebtedness is dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are borrowers or guarantors of the indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries and, under certain circumstances, distributions from our subsidiaries may be subject to significant taxes that reduce the amount of such distributions available to us. in the event that we do not receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. funds may not be available or available on terms acceptable to us as a result of different factors, including but not limited to turmoil in the credit markets that results in the tightening of credit conditions and current or future regulations applicable to the financial institutions from whom we seek financing. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. in addition, there are restrictions in the indenture that governs the u.s. notes on our ability to refinance such notes prior to 2018. there are also restrictions in the indenture that governs the euro notes on our ability to refinance such notes prior to 2024. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly and could affect the value of our senior notes. certain borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and the borrowing under our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. moreover, changes in market interest rates could affect the trading value of the notes. assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn and no interest rate swaps were in place, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a $32.8 million change in annual cash interest expense under our senior secured credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization facility. repayment of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. we are a holding company and repayment of our senior notes will be dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are guarantors of the notes, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the notes or to make funds available 20 for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the notes. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. while the indentures governing the notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to restrict the payment of dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the notes. a downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior notes. credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital. credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include, among other items, our results of operations, business decisions that we make, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the economy. actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading. we believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates. a downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our credit facilities. a downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our senior notes, preventing a holder from selling the notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affect our ability to issue new notes in the future or incur other indebtedness upon favorable terms. the right to receive payments on the senior notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. our obligations under our senior notes and our guarantors' obligations under their guarantees of the notes are unsecured, but our and each co-borrower's obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and each guarantor's obligations under their respective guarantees of the senior secured credit facilities are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of most of our wholly-owned united states subsidiaries and the stock of certain of our non-united states subsidiaries. if we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. if we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of our notes, even if an event of default exists under the applicable indenture governing the notes. furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under our notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. in any such event, because the notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims by holders of the notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy claims fully. as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately $2.2 billion aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1.1 billion of availability under the senior secured credit facilities (without giving effect to approximately $72.7 million of letters of credit outstanding). united states federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the senior notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the senior notes and the guarantees, and require holders of the senior notes to return payments received from us or the guarantors. our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are obligors under the senior secured credit facilities guarantee the obligations under our senior notes. in addition, certain subsidiaries of the issuer of the euro notes guarantee the obligations under the euro notes. the issuance of our senior notes and the issuance of the guarantees by the guarantors may be subject to review under state and federal laws if a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or a lawsuit, including in circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future date by, or on behalf of, our unpaid creditors or the unpaid creditors of a guarantor. under the federal bankruptcy laws of the united states and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a court may avoid or otherwise decline to enforce the notes, or a guarantor's guarantee, or may subordinate the notes, or such guarantee, to our or the applicable guarantor's existing and future indebtedness. while the relevant laws may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, a court might do so if it found that when indebtedness under the notes was issued, or when the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee, or, in some jurisdictions, when payments became due under the notes, or such guarantee, the issuer or the applicable guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. a court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the 21 notes. thus, if the guarantees were legally challenged, any guarantee could be subject to the claim that, since the guarantee was incurred for our benefit, and only indirectly for the benefit of the guarantor, the obligations of the applicable guarantor were incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration. if a court were to void the issuance of the notes or any guarantee, a holder of the notes would no longer have any claim against us or the applicable guarantor. in the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, a holder of the notes may not receive any repayment on the notes. further, the avoidance of the notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries' other debt, which could result in acceleration of that debt. the measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. generally, however, an issuer or a guarantor, as applicable, would be considered insolvent if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair value of its assets; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. a court might also void the notes, or a guarantee, without regard to the above factors, if the court found that the notes were incurred or issued or the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors. we cannot give any assurance as to what standard a court would apply in determining whether we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard, or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that it would not determine that we or a guarantor were indeed insolvent on that date; that any payments to the holders of the notes (including under the guarantees) did not constitute preferences, fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds; or that the issuance of the notes and the guarantees would not be subordinated to our or any guarantor's other debt. in addition, any payment by us or a guarantor pursuant to the notes, or its guarantee, could be avoided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors, and accordingly the court might direct holders of the notes to repay any amounts already received from us or such guarantor. among other things, under u.s. bankruptcy law, any payment by us pursuant to the notes or by a guarantor under a guarantee made at a time we or such guarantor were found to be insolvent could be voided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors if such payment is made to an insider within a one-year period prior to a bankruptcy filing or within 90 days for any outside party and such payment would give such insider or outsider party more than such party would have received in a distribution under the bankruptcy code in a hypothetical chapter 7 case. although each guarantee contains a savings clause intended to limit the subsidiary guarantor's liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its subsidiary guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective as a legal matter to protect any subsidiary guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer law. in that regard, in official committee of unsecured creditors of tousa, inc. v citicorp north america, inc ., the united states bankruptcy court in the southern district of florida held that a savings clause similar to the savings clause included in our indentures was unenforceable. as a result, the subsidiary guarantees were found to be fraudulent conveyances. the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit subsequently affirmed the liability findings of the bankruptcy court without ruling directly on the enforceability of savings clauses generally. if the decision of the bankruptcy court in tousa were followed by other courts, the risk that the guarantees would be deemed fraudulent conveyances would be significantly increased. to the extent a court avoids the notes or any of the guarantees as fraudulent transfers or holds the notes or any of the guarantees unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the notes would cease to have any direct claim against us or the applicable guarantor. if a court were to take this action, our or the applicable guarantor's assets would be applied first to satisfy our or the applicable guarantor's other liabilities, if any, and might not be applied to the payment of the notes. sufficient funds to repay the notes may not be available from other sources, including the remaining guarantors, if any. in addition, the euro notes and the guarantees may be subject to avoidance under the laws of other foreign jurisdictions, including italy and the czech republic, to the extent that we or any of the guarantors (as applicable) were to be the subject of an insolvency or related proceeding in such jurisdiction(s). not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our senior secured credit facilities or our senior notes, and the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on such obligations. not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the senior secured credit facilities, our u.s. notes or our euro notes. in the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves or otherwise winds up, holders of its indebtedness and its trade creditors generally will be entitled to payment on their claims from the assets of that subsidiary before any of those assets are made available to the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the holders of the senior notes. consequently, claims in respect of the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors of such instruments, including trade payables, and any claims of third party holders of preferred equity interests, if any, in our non-guarantor subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 22 2016, our subsidiaries that are not borrowers under or do not guarantee the senior secured credit facilities and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the u.s. notes represented approximately 38% and 27% of our total revenue and operating income, respectively. in addition, these non-guarantor subsidiaries represented approximately 46% and 34% of our total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of december 31, 2016 (excluding, in each case, intercompany amounts). as of the same date, our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior secured credit facilities or the u.s. notes had approximately $923.0 million of outstanding indebtedness (which includes $267.8 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities by foreign subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facilities but that do not guarantee the u.s. notes). the group of subsidiaries that does not guarantee the euro notes is similar to the group that does not guarantee the u.s. notes, except that there are four additional subsidiaries that guarantee the euro notes. we may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control or pursuant to an asset sale offer. upon a change of control, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, the holders of the notes will have the right to require us to offer to purchase all of the notes then outstanding at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. such a change of control would also be an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities. in order to obtain sufficient funds to pay amounts due under the senior secured credit facilities and the purchase price of the outstanding senior notes, we expect that we would have to refinance our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness on reasonable terms, if at all. our failure to offer to purchase all outstanding senior notes or to purchase all validly tendered senior notes would be an event of default under the indenture. such an event of default may cause the acceleration of our other debt. our other debt also may contain restrictions on repayment requirements with respect to specified events or transactions that constitute a change of control under the indenture. the definition of change of control in the indentures governing the senior notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. there is no precise established definition of the phrase substantially all under applicable law. accordingly, the ability of a holder of senior notes to require us to repurchase its notes as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person may be uncertain. in addition, in certain circumstances as specified in the indentures governing the senior notes, we will be required to commence an asset sale offer, as defined in the indenture, pursuant to which we will be obligated to purchase certain senior notes at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest with the proceeds we receive from certain asset sales. our other debt may contain restrictions that would limit or prohibit us from completing any such asset sale offer. in particular, our senior secured credit facilities contain provisions that require us, upon the sale of certain assets, to apply all of the proceeds from such asset sale to the prepayment of amounts due under the senior secured credit facilities. the mandatory prepayment obligations under the senior secured credit facilities will be effectively senior to our obligations to make an asset sale offer with respect to the senior notes under the terms of the indentures. our failure to purchase any such senior notes when required under the indenture would be an event of default under the indentures. key terms of the senior notes will be suspended if the notes achieve investment grade ratings and no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. many of the covenants in the indentures governing the senior notes will be suspended if the notes are rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's provided at such time no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, including those covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur liens and to enter into certain other transactions. there can be no assurance that the senior notes will ever be rated investment grade. however, suspension of these covenants would allow us to engage in certain transactions that would not be permitted while these covenants were in force (although provisions under our other debt, like the senior secured credit facilities, may continue to restrict us from engaging in these transactions), and the effects of any such transactions will be permitted to remain in place even if the senior notes are subsequently downgraded below investment grade. the liquidity and market value of the senior notes may change due to a variety of factors. the liquidity of any trading market in the senior notes, and the market price quoted for the senior notes, may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for these types of securities, changes in interest rates, changes in our ratings, and changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industries generally. we rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity. we have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market. this arrangement expires in november 2019. in the event that the market for commercial paper were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether. 23 our credit ratings may not reflect all risks associated with an investment in our senior notes. credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our results of operations, actions that we take, their view of the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. the rating agencies can upgrade or downgrade our current rating or place us on a watch list for possible future downgrading. downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading would likely increase our cost of financing, limit our access to the capital markets and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, including our senior notes. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in: foreign exchange rates; interest rates; and commodity prices. foreign exchange foreign currency fluctuations may impact the financial results we report for the portions of our business that operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our operations outside of the u.s. represented 39.1% and 32.8% of our revenue during 2016 and 2015, respectively. an increase or decrease in the strength of the u.s. dollar against these currencies by 10% would result in a 4% change in our consolidated revenue and a 3% change in our operating income for the year ended december 31, 2016. see our results of operations discussion in item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our year over year results. additionally, we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products from foreign countries, primarily in europe and asia. to the extent that our inventory purchases are not denominated in the functional currency of the purchasing location, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. in several of our operations, we purchase inventory from manufacturers in taiwan in u.s. dollars, which exposes us to fluctuations in the relationship between the local functional currency and the u.s. dollar, as well as fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar. we hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations related to a portion of inventory purchases in our europe operations, but the notional amount and fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2016 were immaterial. we do not currently attempt to hedge foreign currency exposure related to our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in our north america operations, and we may not be able to pass on any price increases to our customers. other than with respect to a portion of our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases, we do not hold derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency risk. our net investment in foreign operations is partially hedged by the foreign currency denominated borrowings we use to fund foreign acquisitions; however, our ability to use foreign currency denominated borrowings to finance our foreign operations may be limited based on local statutory tax laws. we have elected not to hedge the foreign currency risk related to the interest payments on foreign borrowings as we generate cash flows in the local currencies that can be used to fund debt payments. as of december 31, 2016, we had outstanding borrowings of 500.0 million under our euro notes, and 118.7 million, cad $130.4 million, sek 116.0 million, and 11.0 million under our revolving credit facilities. interest rates our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facilities, where interest rates are tied to the prime rate, libor or cdor. therefore, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching the currency, effective dates and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts are included as adjustments to interest expense. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a.; bank of america, n.a.; citizens, n.a.; fifth third bank; hsbc bank usa, n.a; and banco bilbao vizcaya argentaria, s.a.). as of december 31, 2016, we held ten interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $590 million of u.s. dollar-denominated notional amount debt. our interest rate swap contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. these swaps have maturity dates ranging from january 2021 through june 2021. as of december 31, 2016, the fair value of the interest rate swap contracts was an asset of $16.4 million. the values of such contracts are subject to changes in interest rates. in addition to these interest rate swaps, in 2016 we entered into three cross currency swap agreements for a total notional amount of $422.4 million ( 400 million) with maturity dates in january 2021. these cross currency swaps contain an interest rate swap component and a foreign currency forward contract component that, combined with related intercompany financing arrangements, effectively convert variable rate u.s. dollar-denominated borrowings into fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. the swaps are intended to eliminate uncertainty in cash flows in u.s. dollars and euros in connection with intercompany financing arrangements. the cross currency swaps were also executed with banks we believe are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a.; bank of america, n.a.; and the bank of tokyo-mitsubishi ufj, ltd.). as of december 31, 2016, the fair value of the interest rate swap components of the cross currency swaps was an asset of $1.5 million, and the fair value 55 of the currency forward components was a liability of $3.1 million. the values of these contracts are subject to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. in total, we had 48% of our variable rate debt under our credit facilities at fixed rates at december 31, 2016 compared to 29% at december 31, 2015. see note 9, "long-term obligations " and note 10, "derivative instruments and hedging activities " to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. at december 31, 2016, we had $1.2 billion of variable rate debt that was not hedged. using sensitivity analysis, a 100 basis point movement in interest rates would change interest expense by $11.8 million over the next twelve months. commodity prices we are exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory as well as the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the effect on our revenue from metal price fluctuations and inventory cost changes, and there is no guarantee that the vehicle costs will decrease at the same rate as the metal prices. therefore, we can experience positive or negative gross margin effects in periods of rising or falling metals prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. additionally, if market prices were to change at a greater rate than our vehicle acquisition costs, we could experience a positive or negative effect on our operating margin. scrap metal prices have increased 44% since the fourth quarter of 2015. 56risk factors our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic and political conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere. changes in economic and political conditions in the u.s., europe and other countries in which we are located or do business could have a material effect on our company. changes in such conditions have, in some periods, resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims, and a reduction of vehicle repairs, all of which could negatively affect our business. the number and types of new vehicles produced and sold by manufacturers affects our business. a decrease in the number of vehicles on the road results in a decrease in repairs. our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. the economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. many of these factors are outside of our control. if any of these conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and hedge transactions. these unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have a substantial business presence in europe, including a significant presence in the united kingdom. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom decided by referendum to withdraw from the european union. the precise timing and impacts of this action on our businesses in the united kingdom and other parts of europe are unknown at this time. since the vote, we have seen fluctuations in exchange rates leading to pricing pressures and unfavorable translation effects on our sterling denominated earnings. as the details of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union are negotiated and implemented, our european businesses could be adversely affected as a result of further fluctuations in exchange rates, disruptions to access to markets by united kingdom companies, interruptions of the movement of goods and services between countries, a decrease of economic activity in europe, and political or social unrest. we face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers and distributors. providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. similarly, in europe, some local companies are part of cooperative efforts to compete in the aftermarket parts industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. 11 we believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors of alternative aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured collision parts like us. the oems are therefore able to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. from time to time, the oems have implemented programs seeking to increase their market share in the collision repair parts industry. for example, they have reduced prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products and introduced other rebate programs that may disrupt our sales. the growth of these programs or the introduction of new ones could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, vehicles are being equipped with systems that transmit data to the oems wirelessly regarding, among other items, accident incidents, maintenance requirements, location of the vehicle, identification of the closest dealership, and other statistics about the vehicle and its driving history. to the extent that this data is not shared with alternative suppliers, the oems will have an advantage with respect to such matters as contacting the vehicle driver, recommending repairs and maintenance, and directing the vehicle owner to an affiliated dealership. we rely upon our customers and insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts. our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative collision parts usage by automotive insurance companies. there can be no assurance that current levels of alternative parts usage will be maintained or will increase in the future. we also rely on business relationships with insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ("avery v. state farm"), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. in addition, to the extent that the collision repair industry continues to consolidate, the buying power of collision repair shop customers may further increase, putting additional pressure on our financial returns. we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms, if we do not obtain required antitrust or other regulatory approvals, or for other reasons. moreover, we may not be able to identify a sufficient number of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our growth objectives. also, over time, we will likely seek to make acquisitions that are relatively larger. larger acquisition candidates may attract additional competitive buyers, which could increase our cost or could cause us to lose such acquisitions. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; 12 we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse effects on our business; our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. oems and other manufacturers have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the u.s. international trade commission. to the extent oems and other manufacturers are seeking and obtaining more design patents than they have in the past and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and defending their validity, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. in december 2005 and may 2008, ford global technologies, llc filed complaints with the international trade commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the u.s. infringed on ford design patents. the parties settled these matters in april 2009 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that is currently scheduled to expire in march 2020. in january 2014, chrysler group, llc filed a complaint against us in the u.s. district court in the eastern district of michigan contending that certain aftermarket parts we sell infringe chrysler design patents. the parties settled this matter in june 2014 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that expires in june 2019. in the event that these license arrangements, or other similar license arrangements with oems, are terminated or we are unable to agree upon renewal terms, we may be subject to costs and uncertainties of litigation as well as restrictions on our ability to sell aftermarket parts that replicate parts covered by design patents. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of cars being repaired declines, or the mix of the types of vehicles in the overall vehicle population changes, our business could suffer. our business depends on vehicle accidents, mechanical failures and routine maintenance for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts. to the extent that a relatively higher percentage of damaged vehicles are declared total losses, there will be less demand for our products to repair such vehicles. in addition, our business is impacted by factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, drivers distracted by electronic equipment, the use of alcohol or drugs by drivers, the usage rate and effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new oem parts, and the condition of roadways. for example, an increase in the acceptance of ride-sharing could reduce the number of vehicles on the road. additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease in vehicle accidents. moreover, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. systems designed to minimize accident frequency and severity are becoming more prevalent and more technologically sophisticated. to the extent oems install or are mandated by law to install accident avoidance systems in their vehicles, the number and severity of accidents could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year. periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. substantial further declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. in addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such 13 vehicles or there could be less costly repairs. if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by oem warranties for the first years of a vehicle's life. moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles. electric vehicles do not have traditional engines, transmissions, and certain related parts. engines and transmissions represent our largest revenue generating skus in north america, and parts for engines and transmissions represent a significant amount of the revenue of our european operations. thus, an increase in electric vehicles as a percentage of vehicles sold will have a negative impact on our sales of engines, transmissions, and other related parts. fluctuations in the prices of metals and other commodities could adversely affect our financial results. our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been processed in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. in a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the prices of steel, aluminum, and plastics are components of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. if the prices of commodities rise and result in higher costs to us for products we sell, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers. existing or new laws and regulations may prohibit, restrict or burden the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work. these laws include requirements relating to consumer disclosure, vehicle owner's consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent testing organization. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. if these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product, or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. the passage of legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our business. additionally, congress could enact federal legislation restricting the use of aftermarket or recycled automotive products used in the course of vehicle repairs. the federal trade commission has issued guides which regulate the use of certain terms such as rebuilt or remanufactured in connection with the sale of automotive parts. restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use by such shops of recycled products. there is no pending initiative to implement the parts registration from a law enforcement point of view. however, there is a risk that a heightened legislative concern over safety of parts might precipitate an effort to push for the implementation of such rules. 14 an adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or a disruption to our supply of inventory could increase our expenses and impede our ability to serve our customers. our north american business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from taiwan. our european business also acquires product from asian sources. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of which are located in asia. if the cost of freight rose, we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. furthermore, although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. in addition, we are subject to disruptions from work stoppages and other labor disputes at port facilities through which we import our inventory. we also have the risk that our suppliers could attempt to circumvent us and sell their product directly to our customers. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china, japan and taiwan. the current u.s. administration has discussed the implementation of a tariff on imports into the u.s., the imposition of which would likely have a negative impact on our business due to the amount of inventory we import. because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. additionally, as oems convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process. most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and other bidders. to the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. in addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the u.s. as we grow and our demand for salvage vehicles increases, the costs of these incremental vehicles could be higher. in some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a salvage title is issued. whether states issue salvage titles is important to the supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. currently, these titling issues are a matter of state law. in 1992, the u.s. congress commissioned an advisory committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. the vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. however, certain interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. national legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the future. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. in europe, we acquire product from a wide variety of suppliers. as vehicle technology changes, some parts will become more complex and the design or technology of those parts may be covered by patents or other rights that make it difficult for aftermarket suppliers to produce for sale to companies such as ours. the complexity of the parts may include software or other technical aspects that make it difficult to identify what is wrong with the vehicle. more complex parts may be difficult to repair and may require expensive or difficult to obtain software updates, limiting our ability to compete with the oems. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. 15 future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below our published financial guidance and the expectations of public markets, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. we have operations in north america, europe and taiwan, and we may expand our operations in the countries in which we do business and into other countries. our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the u.k. bribery act 2010 and the foreign corrupt practices act. we also incur costs in currencies other than our functional currencies in some of the countries in which we operate. we are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. in addition, certain countries in which we operate have a higher level of political instability and criminal activity relative to the u.s. that could affect our operations and the ability to maintain our supply of products. if we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2017, our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $3.5 billion . for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "goodwill impairment" in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. except for indefinite-lived intangibles, we amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, each of which is based upon the expected period to be benefited. we review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. we review finite-lived intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. in the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge. as of december 31, 2017, the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $744 million . our business may be adversely affected by union activities and labor and employment laws. certain of our employees are represented by labor unions and other employee representative bodies and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. from time to time, there have been efforts to organize additional portions of our workforce and those efforts can be expected to continue. in addition, legislators and government agencies could adopt new regulations or interpret existing regulations that could make it significantly easier for unionization efforts to be successful. also, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, and other labor disruptions and disputes. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining or similar agreements, and work stoppages could materially increase our costs and reduce revenue and could limit our flexibility in terms of work schedules, reductions in force and other operational matters. we also are subject to laws and regulations that govern such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. some of these laws are technical in nature and could be subject to interpretation by government agencies and courts different than our interpretations. efforts to comply with existing laws, changes to such laws and newly-enacted laws may increase our labor costs and limit our flexibility. if we were found not to be in compliance with such laws, we could be subject to fines, penalties and liabilities to our employees or government agencies. in addition, efforts to better protect local markets from foreign workers and decisions of countries to withdraw from treaties and joint economic areas may lead to increased 16 restrictions on the free movement of people and labor and may limit our ability to place key personnel where it could best serve our needs. we rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. in the ordinary course of business, we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are leased from third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities. the secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals, breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, terminations of business relationships by third party service providers, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disruption to our operations and damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. in addition, as security threats continue to evolve, we may need to invest additional resources to protect the security of our systems. in the event that we decide to switch providers or to implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems or we may underestimate the costs and expenses of switching providers or developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. the costs of complying with the requirements of laws pertaining to the privacy and security of personal information and the potential liability associated with the failure to comply with such laws could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we collect personally identifiable information ("pii") and other data as part of our business processes and operations. the legislative and regulatory framework relating to privacy and data protection is rapidly evolving worldwide and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. this data is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws and regulations. many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the european union, canada and other jurisdictions where we conduct business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of pii and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdictions that are more restrictive than those in the u.s. additionally, the european union adopted the general data protection regulation ("gdpr") that will impose more stringent data protection requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including expanded disclosures about how pii is to be used, limitations on retention of pii, mandatory data breach notification requirements, and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. the gdpr will become effective in may 2018, and there can be no assurance that we will timely have all processes implemented for full compliance with the regulation. the gdpr provides severe penalties for noncompliance. any inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection issues, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations or other legal obligations (including at newly-acquired companies) could result in additional cost and liability to us, result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions, give rise to civil litigation, damage to our reputation (including the loss of trust by our customers and employees), inhibit sales, and otherwise adversely affect our business. we also may be subject to these adverse effects if other parties with whom we do business, including lenders, suppliers, consultants and advisors, violate applicable laws or contractual obligations or suffer a security breach. business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business. weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the closure of our distribution centers or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis. this may affect our ability to serve our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty. some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the u.s. or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices. such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; 17 and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or lose our operating permits. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. we have an environmental management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements. we cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements. we have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to environmental matters. although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other environmental matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. as a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination. these environmental laws also impose liability on any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be a successor to such person. third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze, transmission fluid, chlorofluorocarbons ("cfcs") from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur from the release of the plating material. contamination can migrate on-site or off-site which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability. when we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks, and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and quantify the extent of the potential contamination. furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. in the event we discover new information or if laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective. more generally, a recall involving alternative parts, even if we did not sell the recalled products, could adversely affect the perceived quality of alternative parts, leading to decreased usage of alternative parts. the expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation, or the reputation of alternative parts generally, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. the existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries in our salvage, self-service, and refurbishing operations must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. 18 new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business . in august 2012, as mandated by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec adopted final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries. these new requirements impose significant burdens on u.s. public companies. compliance with the rules requires substantial due diligence in an effort to determine whether products contain the conflict minerals. the results of such due diligence efforts must be disclosed on an annual basis in a filing with the sec. our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. we may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products free of conflict minerals in some circumstances, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary products from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. accordingly, these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks and other vehicles, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks and other vehicles to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing delivery services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may lose the right to operate at key locations. we lease most of the properties at which we conduct our businesses. at the end of a lease term, we must negotiate a renewal, exercise a purchase option (to the extent we have that right), or find a new location. there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate renewals on terms acceptable to us or that we will find a suitable alternative location, especially with respect to our salvage operations (which have characteristics that are often not attractive to landlords or local governments). in such cases, we may lose the right to operate at key locations. our effective tax rate could materially increase as a consequence of various factors, including interpretations and administrative guidance in regard to the tax act (defined below), u.s. and/or international tax legislation, mix of earnings by jurisdiction and u.s. and foreign jurisdictional audits. we are a u.s. based multinational company subject to income taxes in the u.s. and a number of foreign jurisdictions. therefore, we are subject to changes in tax laws in each of these jurisdictions and such changes could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and cash flows. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act"). among other things, the tax act reduces the u.s. statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after december 31, 2017. additionally, beginning in 2018, the tax act imposes a regime of taxation on foreign subsidiary earnings (global intangible low-taxed income, gilti ) and on certain related party payments (base erosion anti-abuse tax, beat ). other important changes potentially material to the our operations include the full expensing of certain assets placed into service after september 27, 2017, the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction, and additional limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation. finally, as part of the transition of u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, the tax act imposes a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of historical earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of december 31, 2017. other than the transition tax and revaluation of deferred tax balances (which are applicable to us for 2017), the provisions will generally be applicable in 2018 and beyond. in accordance with the guidance provided in sec staff accounting bulletin ( sab ) no. 118, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded provisional reasonable estimates of the impact of the tax act, including $51 million for the transition tax and a deferred tax benefit of $73 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax balances based on the new rate. we are continuing to analyze the tax act and plan to finalize the estimate within the measurement period outlined in sab no.118. the final adjustments may differ from the provisional reasonable estimates (and such difference may be material) if provisions of the tax act, and their interaction with other provisions of the u.s. internal revenue code, are interpreted differently than interpretations made by us in determining the estimates, whether through issuance of administrative guidance, or through further review of the tax act. depending upon future interpretations and administrative guidance in respect of the tax act's base broadening provisions, the tax act could have a material adverse effect on the company's effective tax rate and cash flows. 19 certain non-u.s. jurisdictions are considering tax legislation based upon recommendations made by the organization for economic co-operation and development in connection with its base erosion and profit shifting study. the outcome of these legislative developments could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and cash flows. the tax rates applicable in the jurisdictions within which we operate vary widely. therefore, our effective tax rate may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of our earnings by jurisdiction. we are also subject to ongoing audits of our income tax returns in various jurisdictions both in the u.s. and internationally. while we believe that our tax positions will be sustained, the outcomes of such audits could result in the assessment of additional taxes, which could adversely impact our cash flows and financial results. risks relating to our common stock and financial structure the market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. the stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions. the market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. in addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline. additionally, the market price for our common stock has been in the past, and in the future may be, adversely affected by allegations made or reports issued by short sellers, analysts, activists or others regarding our business model, our management or our financial accounting. following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. if similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, "securities") in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. as of december 3 1, 2017, we had approximately $2.1 billion aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1.4 billion of availability under our credit agreement ($1.5 billion of availability reduced by $71 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). in addition, we had approximately $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured debt outstanding comprising $600 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due may 15, 2023 (the "u.s. notes (2023)") an d 500 million ( $600 million ) aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due april 1, 2024 (the "euro notes (2024)," and together with the u.s. notes (2023), the "senior notes"). borrowings under the credit agreement mature in january 2023. our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. for example, our debt and our debt service obligations could: 20 increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and increase our cost of borrowing. in addition, if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. our senior notes do not impose any limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or protect against certain other types of transactions. although we are subject to our credit agreement for so long as it remains in effect, the indentures governing the senior notes do not restrict the future incurrence of unsecured indebtedness, guarantees or other obligations. the indentures contain certain limitations on our ability to incur liens on assets and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. however, these limitations are subject to important exceptions. in addition, the indentures do not contain many other restrictions, including certain restrictions contained in our credit agreement, including, without limitation, investments or prepaying subordinated indebtedness or engaging in transactions with our affiliates. our credit agreement will permit, subject to specified conditions and limitations, the incurrence of a significant amount of additional indebtedness. as of december 31, 2017, we would have been able to incur an additional $1.4 billion of indebtedness under our credit agreement ($1.5 billion of availability reduced by $71 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. if we close the acquisition of stahlgruber, we will incur approximately $1.5 billion of additional debt to partially fund the purchase price; this amount is subject to change, depending on factors such as stahlgruber's debt at closing and the acquisition date exchange rate. our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof); pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness; incur liens on assets; make certain investments or other restricted payments; engage in transactions with affiliates; sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies; guarantee indebtedness; and alter the business we conduct. as a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. 21 we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. additionally, the credit agreement and the indentures that govern our senior notes limit the use of the proceeds from certain dispositions of our assets; as a result, our credit agreement and our senior notes may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all of our debt service obligations. our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. funds may not be available or available on terms acceptable to us as a result of different factors, including but not limited to turmoil in the credit markets that results in the tightening of credit conditions and current or future regulations applicable to the financial institutions from whom we seek financing. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. in addition, there are restrictions in the indenture that governs the u.s. notes (2023) on our ability to refinance such notes prior to may 15, 2018. there are also restrictions in the indenture that governs the euro notes (2024) on our ability to refinance such notes prior to january 1, 2024. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly and could affect the value of our senior notes. certain borrowings under our credit agreement and the borrowing under our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. moreover, changes in market interest rates could affect the trading value of the notes. assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn and no interest rate swaps were in place, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a $36 million change in annual cash interest expense under our credit agreement and our accounts receivable securitization facility. repayment of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. we are a holding company and repayment of our senior notes will be dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are borrowers or guarantors of the indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the senior notes. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries and, under certain circumstances, distributions from our subsidiaries may be subject to significant taxes that reduce the amount of such distributions available to us. while the indentures governing the senior notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to restrict the payment of dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the senior notes. 22 a downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior notes. credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital. credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include, among other items, our results of operations, business decisions that we make, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the economy. actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading. we believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates. a downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our credit facilities. a downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our senior notes, preventing a holder from selling the senior notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affecting our ability to issue new notes in the future or incur other indebtedness upon favorable terms. the right to receive payments on the senior notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. our obligations under our senior notes and our guarantors' obligations under their guarantees of the senior notes are unsecured, but our and each co-borrower's obligations under our credit agreement and each guarantor's obligations under their respective guarantees of the credit agreement are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of most of our wholly-owned united states subsidiaries and the stock of certain of our non-united states subsidiaries. if we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our credit agreement, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. if we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of our senior notes, even if an event of default exists under the applicable indenture governing the senior notes. furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under our senior notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the senior notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. in any such event, because the senior notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims by holders of the senior notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy claims fully. as of december 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.1 billion aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1.4 billion of availability under the credit agreement ($1.5 billion of availability reduced by $71 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). united states federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the senior notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the senior notes and the guarantees, and require holders of the senior notes to return payments received from us or the guarantors. our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are obligors under the credit agreement guarantee the obligations under our senior notes. in addition, certain subsidiaries of the issuer of the euro notes (2024) guarantee the obligations under the euro notes (2024). the issuance of our senior notes and the issuance of the guarantees by the guarantors may be subject to review under state and federal laws if a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or a lawsuit, including in circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future date by, or on behalf of, our unpaid creditors or the unpaid creditors of a guarantor. under the federal bankruptcy laws of the united states and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a court may avoid or otherwise decline to enforce the senior notes, or a guarantor's guarantee, or may subordinate the senior notes, or such guarantee, to our or the applicable guarantor's existing and future indebtedness. while the relevant laws may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, a court might do so if it found that when indebtedness under the senior notes was issued, or when the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee, or, in some jurisdictions, when payments became due under the senior notes, or such guarantee, the issuer or the applicable guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. a court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the senior notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the senior notes. thus, if the guarantees were legally challenged, any guarantee could be subject to the claim that, since the guarantee was incurred for our benefit, and only indirectly for the benefit of the guarantor, the obligations of the applicable guarantor were incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration. if a court were to void the issuance of the senior notes or any guarantee, a holder of the senior notes would no longer have any claim against us or the applicable guarantor. in the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, a holder of the senior notes may not receive any repayment on the senior notes. further, the avoidance of the senior notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries' other debt, which could result in acceleration of that debt. the measures of insolvency for 23 purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. generally, however, an issuer or a guarantor, as applicable, would be considered insolvent if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair value of its assets; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. a court might also void the senior notes, or a guarantee, without regard to the above factors, if the court found that the senior notes were incurred or issued or the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors. we cannot give any assurance as to what standard a court would apply in determining whether we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard, or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that it would not determine that we or a guarantor were indeed insolvent on that date; that any payments to the holders of the senior notes (including under the guarantees) did not constitute preferences, fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds; or that the issuance of the senior notes and the guarantees would not be subordinated to our or any guarantor's other debt. in addition, any payment by us or a guarantor pursuant to the senior notes, or its guarantee, could be avoided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors, and accordingly the court might direct holders of the senior notes to repay any amounts already received from us or such guarantor. among other things, under u.s. bankruptcy law, any payment by us pursuant to the senior notes or by a guarantor under a guarantee made at a time we or such guarantor were found to be insolvent could be voided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors if such payment is made to an insider within a one-year period prior to a bankruptcy filing or within 90 days for any outside party and such payment would give such insider or outsider party more than such party would have received in a distribution under the bankruptcy code in a hypothetical chapter 7 case. although each guarantee contains a savings clause intended to limit the subsidiary guarantor's liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its subsidiary guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective as a legal matter to protect any subsidiary guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer law. in that regard, in official committee of unsecured creditors of tousa, inc. v citicorp north america, inc ., the united states bankruptcy court in the southern district of florida held that a savings clause similar to the savings clause included in our indentures was unenforceable. as a result, the subsidiary guarantees were found to be fraudulent conveyances. the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit subsequently affirmed the liability findings of the bankruptcy court without ruling directly on the enforceability of savings clauses generally. if the decision of the bankruptcy court in tousa were followed by other courts, the risk that the guarantees would be deemed fraudulent conveyances would be significantly increased. to the extent a court avoids the senior notes or any of the guarantees as fraudulent transfers or holds the senior notes or any of the guarantees unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the senior notes would cease to have any direct claim against us or the applicable guarantor. if a court were to take this action, our or the applicable guarantor's assets would be applied first to satisfy our or the applicable guarantor's other liabilities, if any, and might not be applied to the payment of the senior notes. sufficient funds to repay the senior notes may not be available from other sources, including the remaining guarantors, if any. in addition, the euro notes (2024) and the guarantees may be subject to avoidance under the laws of other foreign jurisdictions, including italy and czech republic, to the extent that we, the issuer of the euro notes (2024), or any of the guarantors (as applicable) were to be the subject of an insolvency or related proceeding in such jurisdiction(s). not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our credit agreement or our senior notes, and the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on such obligations. not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the credit agreement, our u.s. notes (2023) or our euro notes (2024). in the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves or otherwise winds up, holders of its indebtedness and its trade creditors generally will be entitled to payment on their claims from the assets of that subsidiary before any of those assets are made available to the lenders under the credit agreement or the holders of the senior notes. consequently, claims in respect of the credit agreement and the senior notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors of such instruments, including trade payables, and any claims of third party holders of preferred equity interests, if any, in our non-guarantor subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2017, our subsidiaries that are not borrowers under or do not guarantee the credit agreement and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023) represented approximately 42% and 26% of our total revenue and operating income, respectively. in addition, these non-guarantor subsidiaries represented approximately 49% and 41% of our total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of december 31, 2017 (excluding, in each case, intercompany amounts). as of the same date, our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the credit agreement or the u.s. notes (2023) had approximately $1.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness (which includes $460 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities by foreign subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facilities but that do not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023)). the group of subsidiaries that does not guarantee the 24 euro notes (2024) is similar to the group that does not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023), except that, in addition to the issuer of the euro notes (2024), there are four subsidiaries in the group that does not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023) that guarantee the euro notes (2024). we may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control or pursuant to an asset sale offer. upon a change of control, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, the holders of the senior notes will have the right to require us to offer to purchase all of the senior notes then outstanding at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. such a change of control would also be an event of default under our credit agreement. in order to obtain sufficient funds to pay amounts due under the credit agreement and the purchase price of the outstanding senior notes, we expect that we would have to refinance our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness on reasonable terms, if at all. our failure to offer to purchase all outstanding senior notes or to purchase all validly tendered senior notes would be an event of default under the indenture. such an event of default may cause the acceleration of our other debt. our other debt also may contain restrictions on repayment requirements with respect to specified events or transactions that constitute a change of control under the indenture. the definition of change of control in the indentures governing the senior notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. there is no precise established definition of the phrase substantially all under applicable law. accordingly, the ability of a holder of senior notes to require us to repurchase its senior notes as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person may be uncertain. in addition, in certain circumstances as specified in the indentures governing the senior notes, we will be required to commence an asset sale offer, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, pursuant to which we will be obligated to purchase certain senior notes at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest with the proceeds we receive from certain asset sales. our other debt may contain restrictions that would limit or prohibit us from completing any such asset sale offer. in particular, our credit agreement contains provisions that require us, upon the sale of certain assets, to apply all of the proceeds from such asset sale to the prepayment of amounts due under the credit agreement. the mandatory prepayment obligations under the credit agreement will be effectively senior to our obligations to make an asset sale offer with respect to the senior notes under the terms of the indentures governing the senior notes. our failure to purchase any such senior notes when required under the indentures would be an event of default under the indentures. key terms of the senior notes will be suspended if the notes achieve investment grade ratings and no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. many of the covenants in the indentures governing the senior notes will be suspended if the senior notes are rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's provided at such time no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, including those covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur liens and to enter into certain other transactions. there can be no assurance that the senior notes will ever be rated investment grade. however, suspension of these covenants would allow us to engage in certain transactions that would not be permitted while these covenants were in force (although provisions under our other debt, like the credit agreement, may continue to restrict us from engaging in these transactions), and the effects of any such transactions will be permitted to remain in place even if the senior notes are subsequently downgraded below investment grade. the liquidity and market value of the senior notes may change due to a variety of factors. the liquidity of any trading market in the senior notes, and the market price quoted for the senior notes, may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for these types of securities, changes in interest rates, changes in our ratings, and changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industries generally. we rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity. we have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market. this arrangement expires in november 2019. in the event that the market for commercial paper were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in: foreign exchange rates; interest rates; and commodity prices. foreign exchange rates foreign currency fluctuations may impact the financial results we report for the portions of our business that operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our operations outside of the u.s. represented 41.8% and 39.1% of our revenue during 2017 and 2016, respectively. an increase or decrease in the strength of the u.s. dollar against these currencies by 10% would result in a 4.2% change in our consolidated revenue and a 2.6% change in our operating income for the year ended december 31, 2017. see our results of operations discussion in item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our year over year results. additionally, we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products from foreign countries, primarily in europe and asia. to the extent that our inventory purchases are not denominated in the functional currency of the purchasing location, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. in several of our operations, we purchase inventory from manufacturers in taiwan in u.s. dollars, which exposes us to fluctuations in the relationship between the local functional currency and the u.s. dollar, as well as fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar. we hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations related to a portion of inventory purchases in our europe operations, but the notional amount and fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2017 were immaterial. we do not currently attempt to hedge foreign currency exposure related to our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in our north america operations, and we may not be able to pass on any price increases to our customers. other than with respect to a portion of our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases, we do not hold derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency risk. our net investment in foreign operations is partially hedged by the foreign currency denominated borrowings we use to fund foreign acquisitions; however, our ability to use foreign currency denominated borrowings to finance our foreign operations may be limited based on local tax laws. we have elected not to hedge the foreign currency risk related to the interest payments on foreign borrowings as we generate cash flows in the local currencies that can be used to fund debt payments. as of december 31, 2017, we had outstanding borrowings of 500 million under our euro notes (2024), and 124 million, cad $130 million, sek 250 million , and 132 million under our revolving credit facilities. interest rates our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facilities, where interest rates are tied to the prime rate, libor or cdor. therefore, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching the currency, effective dates and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts are included as adjustments to interest expense. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a.; bank of america, n.a.; citizens, n.a.; fifth third bank; hsbc bank usa, n.a.; and banco bilbao vizcaya argentaria, s.a.). as of december 31, 2017, we held ten interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $590 million of u.s. dollar-denominated notional amount debt. our interest rate swap contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. these swaps have maturity dates ranging from january 2021 through june 2021. as of december 31, 2017, the fair value of the interest rate swap contracts was an asset of $19 million. the values of such contracts are subject to changes in interest rates. in addition to these interest rate swaps, as of december 31, 2017 we held three cross currency swap agreements for a total notional amount of $407 million ( 385 million) with maturity dates in january 2021. these cross currency swaps contain an interest rate swap component and a foreign currency forward contract component that, combined with related intercompany financing arrangements, effectively convert variable rate u.s. dollar-denominated borrowings into fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. the swaps are intended to eliminate uncertainty in cash flows in u.s. dollars and euros in connection with intercompany financing arrangements. the cross currency swaps were also executed with banks we believe are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a.; bank of america, n.a.; and the bank of tokyo-mitsubishi ufj, ltd.). as of december 31, 2017, the fair value of the interest rate swap components of the cross currency swaps was an asset of $6 million, and the fair 59 value of the currency forward components was a liability of $61 million. the values of these contracts are subject to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. in total, we had 48% of our variable rate debt under our credit facilities at fixed rates at december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016. see note 9, "long-term obligations " and note 10, "derivative instruments and hedging activities " to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. at december 31, 2017, we had $1.1 billion of variable rate debt that was not hedged. using sensitivity analysis, a 100 basis point movement in interest rates would change interest expense by $11 million over the next twelve months. commodity prices we are exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory and the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the effect on our revenue from metal price fluctuations and inventory cost changes, and there is no guarantee that the vehicle costs will decrease or increase at the same rate as the metals prices. therefore, we can experience positive or negative gross margin effects in periods of rising or falling metals prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. additionally, if market prices were to change at a greater rate than our vehicle acquisition costs, we could experience a positive or negative effect on our operating margin. the average of scrap metal prices for 2017 has increased 31.8% over the average for 2016. 60risk factors risks relating to our business our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic and political conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere. changes in economic and political conditions in the u.s., europe and other countries in which we are located or do business could have a material effect on our company. changes in such conditions have, in some periods, resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims, and a reduction of vehicle repairs, all of which could negatively affect our business. the number and types of new vehicles produced and sold by manufacturers affects our business. a decrease in the number of vehicles on the road results in a decrease in repairs. our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. the economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. many of these factors are outside of our control. if any of these conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and hedge transactions. these unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have a substantial business presence in europe, including a significant presence in the u.k. and the republic of ireland ( roi ). in june 2016, voters in the u.k. decided by referendum to withdraw from the european union (also known as brexit). the precise timing and impacts of this action on our businesses in the u.k. and other parts of europe are unknown at this time. since the vote, we have seen fluctuations in exchange rates leading to cost pressures and unfavorable translation effects on our sterling denominated earnings. depending upon how the details of the u.k.'s withdrawal from the european union are negotiated and implemented, our european businesses could be adversely affected as a result of further fluctuations in exchange rates, disruptions to access to markets by u.k. and roi companies, interruptions of the movement of goods and services between countries, a decrease of economic activity in europe, and political or social unrest. the u.k.'s withdrawal from the european union is scheduled to occur on march 29, 2019. the u.k. and the european union have been attempting to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal but have not been able to reach an agreement. unless there is an agreed extension or cancellation of the withdrawal, the withdrawal will occur on march 29, 2019. if no negotiated withdrawal agreement is reached, businesses (including ours) will likely experience greater disruptions and risks than would occur compared with a negotiated withdrawal. we face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry and vehicle accessory parts industry are highly competitive and are served by numerous suppliers of oem, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers and distributors. providers of vehicle replacement and accessory products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. similarly, in europe, some local companies are part of cooperative efforts to compete in the aftermarket parts industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors of alternative aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured collision parts like us. the oems are therefore able to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. from time to time, the oems have implemented programs seeking to increase their market share in the collision repair parts industry. for example, they have reduced prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products and introduced other rebate programs that may disrupt our sales. the growth of these programs or the introduction of new ones could have a material adverse impact on our business. 13 in addition, vehicles are being equipped with systems that transmit data to the oems wirelessly regarding, among other items, accident incidents, maintenance requirements, location of the vehicle, identification of the closest dealership, and other statistics about the vehicle and its driving history. to the extent that this data is not shared with alternative suppliers, the oems will have an advantage with respect to such matters as contacting the vehicle driver, recommending repairs and maintenance, and directing the vehicle owner to an affiliated dealership. we rely upon our customers and insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts. our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative parts usage by automotive insurance companies and vehicle repair facilities. there can be no assurance that current levels of alternative parts usage will be maintained or will increase in the future. we rely on business relationships with insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ("avery v. state farm"), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. in addition, to the extent that the collision repair industry continues to consolidate, the buying power of collision repair shop customers may further increase, putting additional pressure on our financial returns. we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our growth and profitability objectives to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms, if we do not obtain required antitrust or other regulatory approvals, or for other reasons. moreover, we may not be able to identify a sufficient number of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our inorganic growth objectives, and/or be able to successfully integrate acquisitions. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse effects on our business; our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; 14 we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. intellectual property claims relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business . oems and others have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the u.s. international trade commission. u.s. customs and border protection have used claims of intellectual property infringement to seize certain of our aftermarket parts as we attempted to import them into the u.s. to the extent oems and other manufacturers obtain design patents and trademarks and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and trademarks and defending their validity, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. in december 2005 and may 2008, ford global technologies, llc filed complaints with the international trade commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the u.s. infringed on ford design patents. the parties settled these matters in april 2009 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that is currently scheduled to expire in march 2020. in january 2014, chrysler group, llc filed a complaint against us in the u.s. district court in the eastern district of michigan contending that certain aftermarket parts we sell infringe chrysler design patents. the parties settled this matter in june 2014 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that expires in june 2019. in the event that these license arrangements, or other similar license arrangements with oems, are terminated or we are unable to agree upon renewal terms, we may be subject to costs and uncertainties of litigation as well as restrictions on our ability to sell aftermarket parts that replicate parts covered by design patents. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of cars being repaired declines, or the mix of the types of vehicles in the overall vehicle population changes, our business could suffer. our business depends on vehicle accidents, mechanical failures and routine maintenance for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts. to the extent that a relatively higher percentage of damaged vehicles are declared total losses, there will be less demand for our products to repair such vehicles. in addition, our business is impacted by factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, drivers distracted by electronic equipment, the use of alcohol or drugs by drivers, the usage rate and effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new oem parts, and the condition of roadways. for example, an increase in the acceptance of ride-sharing could reduce the number of vehicles on the road. additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease in vehicle accidents. moreover, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving could lead to a decline in accidents. systems designed to minimize accident frequency and severity are becoming more prevalent and more technologically sophisticated. to the extent oems install or are mandated by law to install accident avoidance systems in their vehicles, the number and severity of accidents could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year. periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. substantial further declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. in addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such vehicles or there could be less costly repairs. if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by oem warranties for the first years of a vehicle's life. moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles. our specialty segment depends on sales of pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles, crossover utility vehicles, high performance vehicles and 15 recreational vehicles; any reduction in the number of such vehicles in operation will adversely affect demand for our specialty products. electric vehicles do not have traditional engines, transmissions, and certain related parts. engines and transmissions represent some of our largest revenue generating skus in north america, and parts for engines and transmissions represent a significant amount of the revenue of our european operations. thus, an increase in electric vehicles as a percentage of vehicles sold will have a negative impact on our sales of engines, transmissions, and other related parts. fluctuations in the prices of metals and other commodities could adversely affect our financial results. our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been processed in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. for example, china has recently imposed a ban on the importation of 32 types of solid waste allegedly in an effort to reduce environmental pollution. this ban includes certain metals that we sell and will likely have the effect of reducing the prices of such products. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. in a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the prices of steel, aluminum, and plastics are components of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. if the prices of commodities rise and result in higher costs to us for products we sell, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers. existing or new laws and regulations may prohibit, restrict or burden the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products . most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work. these laws include requirements relating to consumer disclosure, vehicle owner's consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent testing organization. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. if these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product, or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. in addition, laws relating to the regulation of parts affecting vehicle emissions, such as california's proposition 65, may impact the ability of our specialty segment to sell certain accessory products. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. the passage of legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our business. additionally, congress could enact federal legislation restricting the use of aftermarket or recycled automotive products used in the course of vehicle repairs. the federal trade commission has issued guides that regulate the use of certain terms such as rebuilt or remanufactured in connection with the sale of automotive parts. restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use by 16 such shops of recycled products. there is no pending initiative to implement the parts registration from a law enforcement point of view. however, there is a risk that a heightened legislative concern over safety of parts might precipitate an effort to push for the implementation of such rules. an adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or a disruption to our supply of inventory could increase our expenses and impede our ability to serve our customers. our north american business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from taiwan. our european business also acquires product from asian sources. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of which are located in asia. if the cost of freight rose, we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. furthermore, although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced manufacturing and providing the relevant products. in addition, we are subject to disruptions from work stoppages and other labor disputes at port facilities through which we import our inventory. we also face the risk that our suppliers could attempt to circumvent us and sell their product directly to our customers. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china, japan and taiwan. for example, u.s. customs and border protection have used claims of intellectual property infringement to seize certain of our aftermarket parts as we attempted to import them into the u.s. because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. additionally, as oems convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process. most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and other bidders. to the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. in addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the u.s. as we grow and our demand for salvage vehicles increases, the costs of these incremental vehicles could be higher. in some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a salvage title is issued. whether states issue salvage titles is important to the supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. currently, these titling issues are a matter of state law. in 1992, the u.s. congress commissioned an advisory committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. the vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. however, certain interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. national legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the future. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. in europe, we acquire products from a wide variety of suppliers. as vehicle technology changes, some parts will become more complex and the design or technology of those parts may be covered by patents or other rights that make it difficult for aftermarket suppliers to produce for sale to companies such as ours. the complexity of the parts may include software or other technical aspects that make it difficult to identify what is wrong with the vehicle. more complex parts may be difficult to repair and may require expensive or difficult to obtain software updates, limiting our ability to compete with the oems. 17 our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. additionally, the number of selling days can fluctuate each quarter causing volatility in revenue and net income. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below our published financial guidance and the expectations of public markets, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline. our key management personnel are important to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. in addition, to the extent wage inflation occurs in jurisdictions in which we operate, we may not be able to retain key employees or we may experience increased costs. we operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. we have operations in north america, europe and taiwan, and we may expand our operations in the countries in which we do business and into other countries. our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the u.k. bribery act 2010 and the foreign corrupt practices act. we also incur costs in currencies other than our functional currencies in some of the countries in which we operate. we are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. in addition, certain countries in which we operate have a higher level of political instability and criminal activity than the u.s. that could affect our operations and the ability to maintain our supply of products. if we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, our goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, deterioration of expected future cash flows or performance, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2018 , our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $4.4 billion. for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "goodwill impairment" in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. except for indefinite-lived intangibles, we amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, each of which is based upon the expected period to be benefited. we review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. we review finite-lived intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. in the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge. as of december 31, 2018 , the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $929 million. our business may be adversely affected by union activities and labor and employment laws . certain of our employees are represented by labor unions and other employee representative bodies and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. from time to time, there have been efforts to organize additional portions of our workforce and those efforts can be expected to continue. in addition, legislators and government agencies could adopt new regulations, or interpret existing regulations in a manner, that could make it significantly easier for unionization efforts to be successful. also, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, and other labor disruptions and disputes. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining or similar agreements, and work stoppages could materially increase our costs and reduce revenue and could limit our flexibility in terms of work schedules, reductions in force and other operational matters. 18 we also are subject to laws and regulations that govern such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. some of these laws are technical in nature and could be subject to interpretation by government agencies and courts different than our interpretations. efforts to comply with existing laws, changes to such laws and newly-enacted laws may increase our labor costs and limit our flexibility. if we were found not to be in compliance with such laws, we could be subject to fines, penalties and liabilities to our employees or government agencies. in addition, efforts to better protect local markets from foreign workers and decisions of countries to withdraw from treaties and joint economic areas may lead to increased restrictions on the free movement of people and labor and may limit our ability to place key personnel where it could best serve our needs. we rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. in the ordinary course of business, we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are leased from third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities. the secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals, breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, terminations of business relationships by third party service providers, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disruption to our operations and damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. in addition, as security threats continue to evolve, we will likely need to invest additional resources to protect the security of our systems. in the event that we decide to switch providers or to implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems or we may underestimate the costs and expenses of switching providers or developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. in 2018, we launched a systems conversion project for our european businesses, which will be subject to all of these risks. the costs of complying with the requirements of laws pertaining to the privacy and security of personal information and the potential liability associated with the failure to comply with such laws could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations . we collect personally identifiable information ("pii") and other data as part of our business processes and operations. the legislative and regulatory framework relating to privacy and data protection is rapidly evolving worldwide and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. this data is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws and regulations. many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the european union, canada and other jurisdictions where we conduct business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of pii and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdictions that are more restrictive than those in the u.s. additionally, the european union adopted the general data protection regulation ("gdpr") that will impose more stringent data protection requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including expanded disclosures about how pii is to be used, limitations on retention of pii, mandatory data breach notification requirements, and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. the gdpr became effective in may 2018, and there can be no assurance that we have timely implemented all processes required for full compliance with the regulation. the gdpr provides severe penalties for noncompliance. in addition, stricter laws in this area are being enacted in certain states in the u.s. and in other countries, and more jurisdictions are likely to follow this trend. any inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection issues, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations or other legal obligations (including at newly-acquired companies) could result in additional cost and liability to us, result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions, give rise to civil litigation, result in damage to our reputation (including the loss of trust by our customers and employees), inhibit sales, and otherwise adversely affect our business. we also may be subject to these adverse effects if other parties with whom we do business, including lenders, suppliers, consultants and advisors, violate applicable laws or contractual obligations or suffer a security breach. business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business. weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the closure of our distribution centers or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis. this may affect our ability to serve our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty. some of 19 our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the u.s. or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices. such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters . we are subject to various environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or lose our operating permits. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. we have an environmental management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements; we cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements. we have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to environmental matters. although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other environmental matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. as a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination. these environmental laws also impose liability on any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be a successor to such person. third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze, transmission fluid, chlorofluorocarbons ("cfcs") from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur from the release of the plating material. contamination can migrate on-site or off-site, which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability. when we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks, and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and quantify the extent of the potential contamination. furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. in the event we discover new information or if laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective. more generally, a recall involving alternative parts, even if we did not sell the recalled products, could adversely affect the perceived quality of alternative parts, leading to decreased usage of alternative parts. the expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation, or the reputation of alternative parts generally, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. the existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. 20 governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries in our salvage, self-service, and refurbishing operations must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business . in august 2012, as mandated by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec adopted final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries. these requirements impose significant burdens on u.s. public companies. compliance with the rules requires substantial due diligence in an effort to determine whether products contain the conflict minerals. the results of such due diligence efforts must be disclosed on an annual basis in a filing with the sec. our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. we may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products free of conflict minerals in some circumstances, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary products from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. accordingly, these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks and other vehicles, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks and other vehicles to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing delivery services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may lose the right to operate at key locations. we lease most of the properties at which we conduct our businesses. at the end of a lease term, we must negotiate a renewal, exercise a purchase option (to the extent we have that right), or find a new location. there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate renewals on terms acceptable to us or that we will find a suitable alternative location, especially with respect to our salvage operations (which have characteristics that are often not attractive to landlords, local governments, or neighbors). in such cases, we may lose the right to operate at key locations. our effective tax rate could materially increase as a consequence of various factors, including interpretations and administrative guidance in regard to the tax act (defined below), u.s. and/or international tax legislation, mix of earnings by jurisdiction, and u.s. and foreign jurisdictional audits. we are a u.s. based multinational company subject to income taxes in the u.s. and a number of foreign jurisdictions. therefore, we are subject to changes in tax laws in each of these jurisdictions and such changes could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and cash flows. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act"). among other things, the tax act reduced the u.s. statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after december 31, 2017. additionally, beginning in 2018, the tax act imposed a regime of taxation on foreign subsidiary earnings (global intangible low-taxed income, gilti ) and on certain related party payments (base erosion anti-abuse tax, beat ). other important changes potentially material to our operations included the full expensing of certain assets placed into service after september 27, 2017, the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction, and additional limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation. finally, as part of the transition of u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, the tax act imposed a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of historical earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of december 31, 2017. other than the transition tax and revaluation of deferred tax balances (which were applicable to us for 2017), the provisions will generally be applicable in 2018 and beyond. in accordance with the guidance provided in sec staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ("sab 118"), in the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded provisional reasonable estimates of the impact of the tax act, including $51 million for the transition tax and a deferred tax 21 benefit of $73 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax balances based on the new rate. during the third quarter of 2018, we recorded a $10 million favorable adjustment to the provisional amount recognized in 2017 related to the transition tax; no further material adjustments were recognized with regard to the revaluation of deferred tax balances. as of december 31, 2018, we completed our analysis of the impact of the tax act in accordance with sab 118, and the provisional amounts recognized in 2017 are no longer considered provisional. certain non-u.s. jurisdictions are considering tax legislation based upon recommendations made by the organization for economic co-operation and development in connection with its base erosion and profit shifting study. the outcome of these legislative developments could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and cash flows. the tax rates applicable in the jurisdictions within which we operate vary widely. therefore, our effective tax rate may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of our earnings by jurisdiction. we are also subject to ongoing audits of our income tax returns in various jurisdictions both in the u.s. and internationally. while we believe that our tax positions will be sustained, the outcomes of such audits could result in the assessment of additional taxes, which could adversely impact our cash flows and financial results. if significant tariffs or other restrictions are placed on products or materials we import or any related counter-measures are taken by countries to which we export products, our revenue and results of operations may be materially harmed . the current u.s. administration has recently imposed tariffs on certain materials imported into the u.s. from china and announced additional tariffs on other goods from china and other countries. moreover, counter-measures have been taken by other countries in retaliation for the u.s.-imposed tariffs. the tariffs cover products and materials that we import, and the counter-measures may affect products we export. the effects currently are not material; however, depending on the breadth of products and materials ultimately affected by, and the duration of, the tariffs and countermeasures, our financial results may be materially harmed. in addition, countries may impose other restrictions on the importation of products. for example, china has imposed a ban on the importation of 32 types of solid waste allegedly in an effort to reduce environmental pollution. this ban includes certain scrap metals that we sell and will likely have the effect of reducing the prices of such products. activist investors could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management's attention, and have an adverse effect on our business. from time to time, we may be subject to proposals by activist investors urging us to take certain corporate actions. if activist investor activities occur, our business could be adversely affected because responding to proxy contests and other demands by activist investors can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations, and divert the attention of management and our employees. for example, we may be required to retain the services of various professionals to advise us on activist investor matters, including legal, financial and communications advisors, the costs of which may negatively impact our future financial results. campaigns by activist investors to effect changes at publicly-traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short term investor value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases, or sales of assets or the entire company. perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, strategy or leadership that arise as a consequence of activist investor initiatives may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new investors, employees and business partners, and cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation. risks relating to our common stock and financial structure the market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. the stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions. the market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. in addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline. additionally, the market price for our common stock has been in the past, and in the future may be, adversely affected by allegations made or reports issued by short sellers, analysts, activists or others regarding our business model, our management or our financial accounting. following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. if similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 22 delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments that constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, "securities") in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. we cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented. in october 2018, our board of directors approved a stock repurchase program totaling $500 million. we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares, and our repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $1.8 billion aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1.7 billion of availability under our credit agreement ( $1.8 billion of availability reduced by $65 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). in addition, we had approximately $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured debt outstanding comprising $600 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due may 15, 2023 (the "u.s. notes (2023)"), 500 million ($573 million) aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due april 1, 2024 (the "euro notes (2024)"), and 1.0 billion ($1.1 billion) aggregate principal amount consisting of 750 million of 3.625% senior notes due 2026 (the "euro notes (2026)") and 250 million of 4.125% senior notes due 2028 (the "euro notes (2028)," together with the 2026 notes, the "euro notes (2026/28)," and together with the u.s. notes (2023), euro notes (2024), and euro notes (2026), the "senior notes"). borrowings under the credit agreement mature in january 2024. our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. for example, our debt and our debt service obligations could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and increase our cost of borrowing. in addition, if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. 23 our senior notes do not impose any limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or protect against certain other types of transactions. although we are subject to our credit agreement for so long as it remains in effect, the indentures governing the senior notes do not restrict the future incurrence of unsecured indebtedness, guarantees or other obligations. the indentures contain certain limitations on our ability to incur liens on assets and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. however, these limitations are subject to important exceptions. in addition, the indentures do not contain many other restrictions, including certain restrictions contained in our credit agreement, including, without limitation, making investments, prepaying subordinated indebtedness or engaging in transactions with our affiliates. our credit agreement will permit, subject to specified conditions and limitations, the incurrence of a significant amount of additional indebtedness. as of december 31, 2018 , we would have been able to incur an additional $1.7 billion of indebtedness under our credit agreement ( $1.8 billion of availability reduced by $65 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof); pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness; incur liens on assets; make certain investments or other restricted payments; engage in transactions with affiliates; sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies; guarantee indebtedness; and alter the business we conduct. as a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we hope to realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. additionally, our credit agreement and the indentures that govern our senior notes limit the use of the proceeds from certain 24 dispositions of our assets; as a result, our credit agreement and our senior notes may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all of our debt service obligations. our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. funds may not be available or available on terms acceptable to us as a result of different factors, including but not limited to turmoil in the credit markets that results in the tightening of credit conditions and current or future regulations applicable to the financial institutions from whom we seek financing. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. there are restrictions in the indenture that governs the euro notes (2024), euro notes (2026) and euro notes (2028) on our ability to refinance such notes prior to january 1, 2024, april 1, 2021, and april 1, 2023, respectively. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly and could affect the value of our senior notes. certain borrowings under our credit agreement and the borrowing under our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. moreover, changes in market interest rates could affect the trading value of the senior notes. certain of our variable rate debt, including our revolving credit facility, currently uses the london interbank offered rate ("libor") as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. libor is the subject of recent proposals for reform. these reforms and other pressures may cause libor to disappear entirely or to perform differently than in the past. the consequences of these developments with respect to libor cannot be entirely predicted but could result in an increase in the cost of our variable rate debt. assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn and no interest rate swaps were in place, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a $36 million change in annual cash interest expense under our credit agreement and our accounts receivable securitization facility. repayment of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. we are a holding company and repayment of our senior notes will be dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are borrowers or guarantors of the indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the senior notes. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries and, under certain circumstances, distributions from our subsidiaries may be subject to taxes that reduce the amount of such distributions available to us. while the indentures governing the senior notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to restrict the payment of dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the senior notes. a downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior notes. credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital. credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include, among other items, our results of operations, business decisions that we make, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the economy. actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading. we believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates. a downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our credit facilities. a downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our senior notes, preventing a holder from selling the senior notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affecting our ability to issue new notes in the future or incur other indebtedness upon favorable terms. 25 the right to receive payments on the senior notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. our obligations under our senior notes and our guarantors' obligations under their guarantees of the senior notes are unsecured, but our and each co-borrower's obligations under our credit agreement and each guarantor's obligations under their respective guarantees of the credit agreement are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of most of our wholly-owned united states subsidiaries and the stock of certain of our non-united states subsidiaries. if we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our credit agreement, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. if we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of our senior notes, even if an event of default exists under the applicable indenture governing the senior notes. furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under our senior notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the senior notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. in any such event, because the senior notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims by holders of the senior notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy claims fully. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $1.8 billion aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1.7 billion of availability under the credit agreement ( $1.8 billion of availability reduced by $65 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). united states federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the senior notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the senior notes and the guarantees, and require holders of the senior notes to return payments received from us or the guarantors. our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are obligors under the credit agreement guarantee the obligations under our senior notes. in addition, certain subsidiaries of the issuer of the euro notes (2024) guarantee the obligations under the euro notes (2024). the issuance of our senior notes and the issuance of the guarantees by the guarantors may be subject to review under state and federal laws if a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or a lawsuit, including in circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future date by, or on behalf of, our unpaid creditors or the unpaid creditors of a guarantor. under the federal bankruptcy laws of the united states and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a court may avoid or otherwise decline to enforce the senior notes, or a guarantor's guarantee, or may subordinate the senior notes, or such guarantee, to our or the applicable guarantor's existing and future indebtedness. while the relevant laws may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, a court might do so if it found that when indebtedness under the senior notes was issued, or when the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee, or, in some jurisdictions, when payments became due under the senior notes, or such guarantee, the issuer or the applicable guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. a court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the senior notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the senior notes. thus, if the guarantees were legally challenged, any guarantee could be subject to the claim that, since the guarantee was incurred for our benefit, and only indirectly for the benefit of the guarantor, the obligations of the applicable guarantor were incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration. if a court were to void the issuance of the senior notes or any guarantee, a holder of the senior notes would no longer have any claim against us or the applicable guarantor. in the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, a holder of the senior notes may not receive any repayment on the senior notes. further, the avoidance of the senior notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries' other debt, which could result in acceleration of that debt. the measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. generally, however, an issuer or a guarantor, as applicable, would be considered insolvent if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair value of its assets; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. a court might also void the senior notes, or a guarantee, without regard to the above factors, if the court found that the senior notes were incurred or issued or the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors. we cannot give any assurance as to what standard a court would apply in determining whether we or the 26 guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard, or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that it would not determine that we or a guarantor were indeed insolvent on that date; that any payments to the holders of the senior notes (including under the guarantees) did not constitute preferences, fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds; or that the issuance of the senior notes and the guarantees would not be subordinated to our or any guarantor's other debt. in addition, any payment by us or a guarantor pursuant to the senior notes, or its guarantee, could be avoided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors, and accordingly the court might direct holders of the senior notes to repay any amounts already received from us or such guarantor. among other things, under u.s. bankruptcy law, any payment by us pursuant to the senior notes or by a guarantor under a guarantee made at a time we or such guarantor were found to be insolvent could be voided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors if such payment is made to an insider within a one-year period prior to a bankruptcy filing or within 90 days for any outside party and such payment would give such insider or outsider party more than such party would have received in a distribution under the bankruptcy code in a hypothetical chapter 7 case. although each guarantee contains a savings clause intended to limit the subsidiary guarantor's liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its subsidiary guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective as a legal matter to protect any subsidiary guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer law. in that regard, in official committee of unsecured creditors of tousa, inc. v citicorp north america, inc ., the united states bankruptcy court in the southern district of florida held that a savings clause similar to the savings clause included in our indentures was unenforceable. as a result, the subsidiary guarantees were found to be fraudulent conveyances. the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit subsequently affirmed the liability findings of the bankruptcy court without ruling directly on the enforceability of savings clauses generally. if the decision of the bankruptcy court in tousa were followed by other courts, the risk that the guarantees would be deemed fraudulent conveyances would be significantly increased. to the extent a court avoids the senior notes or any of the guarantees as fraudulent transfers or holds the senior notes or any of the guarantees unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the senior notes would cease to have any direct claim against us or the applicable guarantor. if a court were to take this action, our or the applicable guarantor's assets would be applied first to satisfy our or the applicable guarantor's other liabilities, if any, and might not be applied to the payment of the senior notes. sufficient funds to repay the senior notes may not be available from other sources, including the remaining guarantors, if any. in addition, the euro notes (2024) and the guarantees may be subject to avoidance under the laws of other foreign jurisdictions, including italy and czech republic, to the extent that we, the issuer of the euro notes (2024), or any of the guarantors (as applicable) were to be the subject of an insolvency or related proceeding in such jurisdiction(s). not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our credit agreement or our senior notes, and the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on such obligations. not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the credit agreement, our u.s. notes (2023), euro notes (2024), euro notes (2026), and euro notes (2028). in the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves or otherwise winds up, holders of its indebtedness and its trade creditors generally will be entitled to payment on their claims from the assets of that subsidiary before any of those assets are made available to the lenders under the credit agreement or the holders of the senior notes. consequently, claims in respect of the credit agreement and the senior notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors of such instruments, including trade payables, and any claims of third party holders of preferred equity interests, if any, in our non-guarantor subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , our subsidiaries that are not borrowers under or do not guarantee the credit agreement and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023) represented approximately 49% and 30% of our total revenue and operating income, respectively. in addition, these non-guarantor subsidiaries represented approximately 58% and 60% of our total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of december 31, 2018 (excluding, in each case, intercompany amounts). as of the same date, our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the credit agreement or the u.s. notes (2023) had approximately $2.7 billion of outstanding indebtedness (which includes $683 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities by foreign subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facilities but that do not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023)). the group of subsidiaries that does not guarantee the euro notes (2024) is similar to the group that does not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023), euro notes (2026) and euro notes (2028), except that, in addition to the issuer of the euro notes (2024), there are four subsidiaries in the group that does not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023), euro notes (2026) and euro notes (2028) that guarantee the euro notes (2024). we may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control or pursuant to an asset sale offer. upon a change of control, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, the holders of the senior notes will have the right to require us to offer to purchase all of the senior notes then outstanding at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. such a change of control would also be an event of default under our credit agreement. in order to obtain sufficient funds to pay amounts due under the credit agreement and the purchase price of the outstanding senior notes, we expect that we would have to refinance our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that we would be 27 able to refinance our indebtedness on reasonable terms, if at all. our failure to offer to purchase all outstanding senior notes or to purchase all validly tendered senior notes would be an event of default under the indenture. such an event of default may cause the acceleration of our other debt. our other debt also may contain restrictions on repayment requirements with respect to specified events or transactions that constitute a change of control under the indenture. the definition of change of control in the indentures governing the senior notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. there is no precise established definition of the phrase substantially all under applicable law. accordingly, the ability of a holder of senior notes to require us to repurchase its senior notes as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person may be uncertain. in addition, in certain circumstances as specified in the indentures governing the senior notes, we will be required to commence an asset sale offer, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, pursuant to which we will be obligated to purchase certain senior notes at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest with the proceeds we receive from certain asset sales. our other debt may contain restrictions that would limit or prohibit us from completing any such asset sale offer. in particular, our credit agreement contains provisions that require us, upon the sale of certain assets, to apply all of the proceeds from such asset sale to the prepayment of amounts due under the credit agreement. the mandatory prepayment obligations under the credit agreement will be effectively senior to our obligations to make an asset sale offer with respect to the senior notes under the terms of the indentures governing the senior notes. our failure to purchase any such senior notes when required under the indentures would be an event of default under the indentures. key terms of the senior notes will be suspended if the notes achieve investment grade ratings and no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. many of the covenants in the indentures governing the senior notes will be suspended if the senior notes are rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's provided at such time no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, including those covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur liens and to enter into certain other transactions. there can be no assurance that the senior notes will ever be rated investment grade. however, suspension of these covenants would allow us to engage in certain transactions that would not be permitted while these covenants were in force (although provisions under our other debt, like the credit agreement, may continue to restrict us from engaging in these transactions), and the effects of any such transactions will be permitted to remain in place even if the senior notes are subsequently downgraded below investment grade. the liquidity and market value of the senior notes may change due to a variety of factors. the liquidity of any trading market in the senior notes, and the market price quoted for the senior notes, may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for these types of securities, changes in interest rates, changes in our ratings, and changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industries generally. we rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity. we have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market. this arrangement expires in november 2021. in the event that the market for commercial paper were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in: foreign exchange rates; interest rates; and commodity prices. foreign exchange rates foreign currency fluctuations may impact the financial results we report for the portions of our business that operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our operations outside of the u.s. represented 47.9% and 41.8% of our revenue during 2018 and 2017 , respectively. an increase or decrease in the strength of the u.s. dollar against these currencies by 10% would result in a 4.8% change in our consolidated revenue and a 2.9% change in our operating income for the year ended december 31, 2018 . see our results of operations discussion in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our year over year results. additionally, we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products from foreign countries, primarily in europe and asia. to the extent that our inventory purchases are not denominated in the functional currency of the purchasing location, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. in several of our operations, we purchase inventory from manufacturers in taiwan in u.s. dollars, which exposes us to fluctuations in the relationship between the local functional currency and the u.s. dollar, as well as fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar. we hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations related to a portion of inventory purchases in our europe operations, but the notional amount and fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2018 were immaterial. we do not currently attempt to hedge foreign currency exposure related to our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in our north america operations, and we may not be able to pass on any resulting price increases to our customers. other than with respect to a portion of our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases, we do not hold derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency risk. our net investment in foreign operations is partially hedged by the foreign currency denominated borrowings we use to fund foreign acquisitions; however, our ability to use foreign currency denominated borrowings to finance our foreign operations may be limited based on local tax laws. we have elected not to hedge the foreign currency risk related to the interest payments on foreign borrowings as we generate cash flows in the local currencies that can be used to fund debt payments. as of december 31, 2018 , we had outstanding borrowings of 500 million under our euro notes (2024), 1.0 billion under our euro notes (2026/28), and 290 million, 163 million, cad $130 million, and sek 275 million under our revolving credit facilities. as of december 31, 2017 , we had outstanding borrowings of 500 million under our euro notes (2024), and 124 million, cad $130 million, sek 250 million, and 132 million under our 60 revolving credit facilities. the interest payments on our 1.0 billion euro notes (2026/28) are funded primarily by cash flows generated by stahlgruber. interest rates our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facilities, where interest rates are tied to the prime rate, libor or cdor. therefore, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching the currency, effective dates and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts are included as adjustments to interest expense. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a.; bank of america, n.a.; citizens, n.a.; hsbc bank usa, n.a.; and banco bilbao vizcaya argentaria, s.a.). as of december 31, 2018 , we held eight interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $480 million of u.s. dollar-denominated notional amount debt. our interest rate swap contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. these swaps have maturity dates ranging from january 2021 through june 2021. as of december 31, 2018 , the fair value of the interest rate swap contracts was an asset of $15 million . the values of such contracts are subject to changes in interest rates. in addition to these interest rate swaps, as of december 31, 2018 we held five cross currency swap agreements for a total notional amount of $574 million ( 530 million) with maturity dates in october 2019, october 2020, and january 2021. these cross currency swaps contain an interest rate swap component and a foreign currency forward contract component that, combined with related intercompany financing arrangements, effectively convert variable rate u.s. dollar-denominated borrowings into fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. the swaps are intended to reduce uncertainty in cash flows in u.s. dollars and euros in connection with intercompany financing arrangements. the cross currency swaps were also executed with banks we believe are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a.; bank of america, n.a.; mufg bank, ltd. ("mufg") (formerly known as the bank of tokyo-mitsubishi ufj, ltd.); and suntrust bank). as of december 31, 2018 , the fair value of the interest rate swap components of the cross currency swaps was an asset of $7 million and a liability of $1 million, and the fair value of the foreign currency forward components was an asset of $1 million and a liability of $40 million. the values of these contracts are subject to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. in total, we had 57% of our variable rate debt under our credit facilities at fixed rates at december 31, 2018 compared to 48% at december 31, 2017 . see note 10, "long-term obligations " and note 11, "derivative instruments and hedging activities " to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. at december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $ 793 million of variable rate debt that was not hedged. using sensitivity analysis, a 100 basis point movement in interest rates would change interest expense by $8 million over the next twelve months. commodity prices we are exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory and the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the effect on our revenue from metal price fluctuations and inventory cost changes, and there is no guarantee that the vehicle costs will decrease or increase at the same rate as the metals prices. therefore, we can experience positive or negative gross margin effects in periods of rising or falling metals prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. additionally, if market prices were to change at a greater rate than our vehicle acquisition costs, we could experience a positive or negative effect on our operating margin. the average of scrap metal prices for 2018 has increased 18% over the average for 2017 . 61risk factors risks relating to our business our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic, political and social conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere. changes in economic, political and social conditions in the u.s., europe and other countries in which we are located or do business could have a material effect on our company. negative effects to our supply chain, costs of doing business, sales and distribution activity may occur due to factors such as war or threats of war, natural disasters, nuclear facility accidents, public health emergencies, utility interruptions and terrorism. our business is also affected by a number of other factors. for example, the number and types of new vehicles produced and sold by manufacturers affects our business. a decrease in the number of vehicles on the road may result in a decrease in repairs. our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. the economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. many of these factors are outside of our control. if any of these conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and hedge transactions. these unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have a substantial business presence in europe, including a significant presence in the u.k. and the republic of ireland ( roi ). in june 2016, voters in the u.k. decided by referendum to withdraw from the european union (also known as brexit). the precise timing and impacts of this action on our businesses in the u.k. and other parts of europe are unknown at this time. since the vote, we have seen fluctuations in exchange rates leading to cost pressures and unfavorable translation effects on our sterling denominated earnings. the u.k.'s withdrawal from the european union became effective on january 31, 2020. the u.k. and the european union now have an 11-month transition period to negotiate a trade deal and come to terms on other issues such as security and law enforcement. depending upon the outcome of these negotiations, our european businesses could be adversely affected as a result of further fluctuations in exchange rates, disruptions to access to markets by u.k. and roi companies, interruptions of the movement of goods and services between countries, a decrease of economic activity in europe, and political or social unrest. we face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry and vehicle accessory parts industry are highly competitive and are served by numerous suppliers of oem, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers and distributors. providers of vehicle replacement and accessory products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. business transacted on online marketplaces has been increasing, which presents additional competitive pressures on us; in addition, facilitators of these online marketplaces control access to this channel and may prohibit us from participating for various reasons. in the u.s. and europe, local companies have formed cooperative efforts in an attempt to more efficiently compete against us in all aspects of our business. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors of alternative aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured collision parts like us. the oems are therefore able to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. from time to time, the oems have implemented programs seeking to increase their market share in the collision repair parts industry. for example, they have reduced prices on specific products to match the lower prices of 13 alternative products and introduced other rebate programs that may disrupt our sales. the growth of these programs or the introduction of new ones could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, vehicles are being equipped with systems that transmit data to the oems wirelessly regarding, among other items, accident incidents, maintenance requirements, location of the vehicle, identification of the closest dealership, and other statistics about the vehicle and its driving history. to the extent that this data is not shared with alternative suppliers, the oems will have an advantage with respect to such matters as contacting the vehicle driver, recommending repairs and maintenance, and directing the vehicle owner to an affiliated dealership. we rely upon our customers and insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts. our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative parts usage by automotive insurance companies and vehicle repair facilities. there can be no assurance that current levels of alternative parts usage will be maintained or will increase in the future. we rely on business relationships with insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ("avery v. state farm"), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. damages in excess of $1 billion were assessed against state farm. in august 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the lower courts and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the plaintiffs filed a subsequent claim alleging that state farm improperly influenced one of the justices on the illinois supreme court. prior to trial on the subsequent claim, the parties settled the case; as part of the settlement, state farm paid the plaintiffs $250 million. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. in addition, to the extent that the collision repair industry continues to consolidate, the buying power of collision repair shop customers may further increase, putting additional pressure on our financial returns. we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully divest certain businesses. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms, if we do not obtain required antitrust or other regulatory approvals, or for other reasons. moreover, we may not be able to identify acquisition candidates at reasonable prices and/or be able to successfully integrate acquisitions. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse effects on our business; our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; 14 we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. for example, we have undertaken the 1 lkq europe program to create structural centralization and standardization of key functions to facilitate the operation of the europe segment as a single business; this program will present a number of execution challenges. in addition to acquisitions, we have divested, and will continue to divest, certain businesses that do not meet our performance standards. as a result of a divestment, we may not recover the carrying value of our investment in the divested business; in addition, such divestment transactions require significant management time and attention. intellectual property claims relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business . oems and others have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the u.s. international trade commission. in some cases, we have entered into patent license agreements with oems that allow us to sell aftermarket parts that replicate the patented parts in exchange for a royalty and otherwise in accordance with the terms of the agreements. to the extent oems and other manufacturers obtain design patents or trademarks and are successful in asserting claims of infringement of these patents or trademarks against us, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. in the event that our license agreements, or other similar license arrangements with oems or others, are terminated or we are unable to agree upon renewal terms, we may be subject to costs and uncertainties of litigation as well as restrictions on our ability to sell aftermarket parts that replicate parts covered by those design patents or trademarks. we have filed, and may file in the future, challenges to oem patents, including patents owned by oems with which we have patent license agreements. we also may file challenges to oem trademarks. to the extent oems are successful in defending their patents or trademarks, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling the corresponding aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. also, we will likely incur expenses investigating, pursuing and defending intellectual property claims. u.s. customs and border protection has taken the position that certain of our aftermarket parts infringe certain oem trademarks and seized our aftermarket parts as we attempted to import them into the u.s. we incur costs and expenses attempting to convince customs and border protection to release the seized goods and in litigation where we are seeking a determination of non-infringement. in the event we are unsuccessful in obtaining their release, such goods may be subject to forfeiture and other penalties. aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the intellectual property disputes. lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of cars being repaired declines, or the mix of the types of vehicles in the overall vehicle population changes, our business could suffer. our business depends on vehicle accidents, mechanical failures and routine maintenance for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts. to the extent that a relatively higher percentage of damaged vehicles are declared total losses, there will be less demand for our products to repair such vehicles. in addition, our business is impacted by factors that influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, drivers distracted by electronic equipment, the use of alcohol or drugs by drivers, the usage rate and effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new oem parts, and the condition of roadways. for example, an increase in the acceptance of ride-sharing could reduce the number of vehicles on the road. additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease in vehicle accidents. moreover, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving could lead to a decline in accidents. systems designed to minimize accident frequency and severity are becoming more prevalent and more technologically sophisticated. to the extent oems install or are mandated by law to install accident avoidance systems in their vehicles, the number and severity of accidents could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 15 the average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year. periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. substantial further declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. in addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such vehicles or there could be less costly repairs. if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by oem warranties for the first years of a vehicle's life. moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles. our specialty segment depends on sales of pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles, crossover utility vehicles, high performance vehicles and recreational vehicles; any reduction in the number of such vehicles in operation will adversely affect demand for our specialty products. electric vehicles do not have traditional engines, transmissions, and certain related parts. engines and transmissions represent some of our largest revenue generating skus in north america, and parts for engines and transmissions represent a significant amount of the revenue of our european operations. thus, an increase in electric vehicles as a percentage of vehicles sold will have a negative impact on our sales of engines, transmissions, and other related parts. fluctuations in the prices of metals and other commodities could adversely affect our financial results. our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been processed in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. for example, in 2018 china imposed a ban on the importation of various types of solid waste allegedly in an effort to reduce environmental pollution. this ban includes certain metals that we sell and continues to have the effect of reducing the prices of such products. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. in a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the prices of steel, aluminum, and plastics are components of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. if the prices of commodities rise and result in higher costs to us for products we sell, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers. existing or new laws and regulations, or changes to enforcement or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may prohibit, restrict or burden the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products . most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work. these laws include requirements relating to consumer disclosure, vehicle owner's consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent testing organization. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. if these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product, or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. in addition, laws relating to the regulation of parts affecting vehicle emissions, such as california's proposition 65, may impact the ability of our specialty segment to sell certain accessory products. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. the passage of legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our business. additionally, congress could enact federal legislation restricting the use of aftermarket or recycled automotive products used in the course of vehicle repairs. 16 the federal trade commission has issued guides that regulate the use of certain terms such as rebuilt or remanufactured in connection with the sale of automotive parts. restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use by such shops of recycled products. there is no pending initiative to implement the parts registration from a law enforcement point of view. however, there is a risk that a heightened legislative concern over safety of parts might precipitate an effort to push for the implementation of such rules. an adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or a disruption to our supply of inventory could increase our expenses and impede our ability to serve our customers. our north american business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from taiwan. our european business also acquires product from asian sources. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of which are located in asia. if the cost of freight rose, we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. furthermore, although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced manufacturing and providing the relevant products. in addition, we are subject to disruptions from work stoppages and other labor disputes at port facilities through which we import our inventory. we also face the risk that our suppliers could attempt to circumvent us and sell their product directly to our customers; consolidation of our suppliers could enhance their ability to distribute products through additional sales channels and thus decrease their reliance on wholesale distributors like us. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china, japan and taiwan. for example, u.s. customs and border protection have used claims of intellectual property infringement to seize certain of our aftermarket parts as we attempted to import them into the u.s. because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. additionally, as oems convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process. most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and other bidders. to the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. in addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the u.s., and thus the costs to us of these vehicles could increase over time. in some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a salvage title is issued. whether states issue salvage titles is important to the supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. currently, these titling issues are a matter of state law. in 1992, the u.s. congress commissioned an advisory committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. the vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform 17 definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. however, certain interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. national legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the future. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. in europe, we acquire products from a wide variety of suppliers. as vehicle technology changes, some parts will become more complex and the design or technology of those parts may be covered by patents or other rights that make it difficult for aftermarket suppliers to produce for sale to companies such as ours. the complexity of the parts may include software or other technical aspects that make it difficult to identify what is wrong with the vehicle. more complex parts may be difficult to repair and may require expensive or difficult to obtain software updates, limiting our ability to compete with the oems. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. additionally, the number of selling days can fluctuate each quarter causing volatility in revenue and net income. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below our published financial guidance and the expectations of public markets, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline. our key management personnel are important to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. in addition, to the extent wage inflation occurs in jurisdictions in which we operate, we may not be able to retain key employees or we may experience increased costs. we operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. we have operations in north america, europe and taiwan, and we may expand our operations in the countries in which we do business and into other countries. our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the u.k. bribery act 2010 and the foreign corrupt practices act. we also incur costs in currencies other than our functional currencies in some of the countries in which we operate. we are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. in addition, certain countries in which we operate have a higher level of political instability and criminal activity than the u.s. that could affect our operations and the ability to maintain our supply of products. if we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, our goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, deterioration of expected future cash flows or performance, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2019 , our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $4.4 billion. for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "goodwill impairment" in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. except for indefinite-lived intangibles, we amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, each of which is based upon the expected period to be benefited. we review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. we review finite-lived intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not 18 be recoverable. in the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge. as of december 31, 2019 , the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $850 million. our business may be adversely affected by union activities and labor and employment laws . certain of our employees are represented by labor unions and other employee representative bodies and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. from time to time, there have been efforts to organize additional portions of our workforce and those efforts can be expected to continue. in addition, legislators and government agencies could adopt new regulations, or interpret existing regulations in a manner, that could make it significantly easier for unionization efforts to be successful. also, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, and other labor disruptions and disputes. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining or similar agreements, and work stoppages could materially increase our costs and reduce revenue and could limit our flexibility in terms of work schedules, reductions in force and other operational matters. we also are subject to laws and regulations that govern such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. some of these laws are technical in nature and could be subject to interpretation by government agencies and courts different than our interpretations. efforts to comply with existing laws, changes to such laws and newly-enacted laws may increase our labor costs and limit our flexibility. if we were found not to be in compliance with such laws, we could be subject to fines, penalties and liabilities to our employees or government agencies. in addition, efforts to better protect local markets from foreign workers and decisions of countries to withdraw from treaties and joint economic areas may lead to increased restrictions on the free movement of people and labor and may limit our ability to place key personnel where they could best serve our needs. we rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. in the ordinary course of business, we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are leased from third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities. the secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals, breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, terminations of business relationships by third party service providers, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disruption to our operations and damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. in addition, as security threats continue to evolve, we will likely need to invest additional resources to protect the security of our systems. in the event that we decide to switch providers or to implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems or we may underestimate the costs and expenses of switching providers or developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. we are in the midst of a systems conversion project for our european businesses, which will be subject to all of these risks. the costs of complying with the requirements of laws pertaining to the privacy and security of personal information and the potential liability associated with the failure to comply with such laws could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations . we collect personally identifiable information ("pii") and other data as part of our business processes and operations. the legislative and regulatory framework relating to privacy and data protection is rapidly evolving worldwide and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. this data is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws and regulations. many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the european union, canada and other jurisdictions where we conduct business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of pii and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdictions that are more restrictive than those in the u.s. additionally, the european union adopted the general data protection regulation ("gdpr") that will impose more stringent data protection requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including expanded disclosures about how pii is to be used, limitations on retention of pii, mandatory data breach notification requirements, and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. the gdpr became effective in may 2018, and there can be no assurance that we have timely implemented all processes required for full compliance with the regulation. the gdpr provides severe penalties for noncompliance. in addition, stricter laws in this area are being enacted in certain states in the u.s. and in other countries, and more jurisdictions are likely to follow this trend. 19 any inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection issues, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations or other legal obligations (including at newly-acquired companies) could result in additional cost and liability to us, result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions, give rise to civil litigation, result in damage to our reputation (including the loss of trust by our customers and employees), inhibit sales, and otherwise adversely affect our business. we also may be subject to these adverse effects if other parties with whom we do business, including lenders, suppliers, consultants and advisors, violate applicable laws or contractual obligations or suffer a security breach. business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business. weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the closure of our distribution centers or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis. this may affect our ability to serve our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty. some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the u.s. or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices. such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters . we are subject to various environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or lose our operating permits. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. we have an environmental management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements; we cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements. we have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to environmental matters. although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other environmental matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. as a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination. these environmental laws also impose liability on any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be a successor to such person. third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze, transmission fluid, chlorofluorocarbons ("cfcs") from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur from the release of the plating material. contamination can migrate on-site or off-site, which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability. when we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks, and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and quantify the extent of the potential contamination. furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. in the event we discover new information or if laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls. 20 if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective. more generally, a recall involving alternative parts, even if we did not sell the recalled products, could adversely affect the perceived quality of alternative parts, leading to decreased usage of alternative parts. the expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation, or the reputation of alternative parts generally, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. the existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries in our salvage, self-service, and refurbishing operations must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business . in august 2012, as mandated by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec adopted final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries. these requirements impose significant burdens on u.s. public companies. compliance with the rules requires substantial due diligence in an effort to determine whether products contain the conflict minerals. the results of such due diligence efforts must be disclosed on an annual basis in a filing with the sec. our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. we may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products free of conflict minerals in some circumstances, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary products from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. accordingly, these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks and other vehicles, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks and other vehicles to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing delivery services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may lose the right to operate at key locations. we lease most of the properties at which we conduct our businesses. at the end of a lease term, we must negotiate a renewal, exercise a purchase option (to the extent we have that right), or find a new location. there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate renewals on terms acceptable to us or that we will find a suitable alternative location, especially with respect to our salvage operations (which have characteristics that are often not attractive to landlords, local governments, or neighbors). in such cases, we may lose the right to operate at key locations. our effective tax rate could materially increase as a consequence of various factors, including interpretations and administrative guidance in regard to the tax act (defined below), u.s. and/or international tax legislation, mix of earnings by jurisdiction, and u.s. and foreign jurisdictional audits. we are a u.s. based multinational company subject to income taxes in the u.s. and a number of foreign jurisdictions. therefore, we are subject to changes in tax laws in each of these jurisdictions and such changes could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and cash flows. 21 on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act"). among other things, the tax act reduced the u.s. statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after december 31, 2017. additionally, beginning in 2018, the tax act imposed a regime of taxation on foreign subsidiary earnings (global intangible low-taxed income, gilti ) and on certain related party payments (base erosion anti-abuse tax, beat ). other important changes potentially material to our operations included the full expensing of certain assets placed into service after september 27, 2017, the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction, and additional limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation. finally, as part of the transition of u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, the tax act imposed a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of historical earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of december 31, 2017. many non-u.s. jurisdictions are implementing tax legislation based upon recommendations made by the organization for economic co-operation and development in connection with its base erosion and profit shifting study, as well as certain anti-tax-avoidance initiatives advanced by the european commission. the outcome of these legislative developments could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and cash flows. the tax rates applicable in the jurisdictions within which we operate vary widely. therefore, our effective tax rate may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of our earnings by jurisdiction. we are also subject to ongoing audits of our income tax returns in various jurisdictions both in the u.s. and internationally. while we believe that our tax positions will be sustained, the outcomes of such audits could result in the assessment of additional taxes, which could adversely impact our cash flows and financial results. if significant tariffs or other restrictions are placed on products or materials we import or any related counter-measures are taken by countries to which we export products, our revenue and results of operations may be materially harmed . the current u.s. administration has imposed tariffs on certain materials imported into the u.s. from china and announced additional tariffs on other goods from china and other countries. moreover, counter-measures have been taken by other countries in retaliation for the u.s.-imposed tariffs. the tariffs cover products and materials that we import, and the counter-measures may affect products we export. the effects currently are not material; however, depending on the breadth of products and materials ultimately affected by, and the duration of, the tariffs and countermeasures, our financial results may be materially harmed. in addition, countries may impose other restrictions on the importation of products. for example, in 2018 china imposed a ban on the importation of various types of solid waste allegedly in an effort to reduce environmental pollution. this ban includes certain scrap metals that we sell and continues to have the effect of reducing the prices of such products. activist investors could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management's attention, and have an adverse effect on our business. we have in the past received, and we may in the future be subject to, proposals by activist investors urging us to take certain corporate actions. activist investor activities could cause our business to be adversely affected because responding to proxy contests and other demands by activist investors can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations, and divert the attention of management and our employees. for example, we have retained, and may in the future be required to retain, the services of various professionals to advise us on activist investor matters, including legal, financial and communications advisors, the costs of which may negatively impact our future financial results. campaigns by activist investors to effect changes at publicly-traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short term investor value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases, or sales of assets or the entire company. perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, strategy or leadership that arise as a consequence of activist investor initiatives may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new investors, employees and business partners, and cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation. risks relating to our common stock and financial structure the market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. the stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions. the market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. in addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline. additionally, the market price for our common stock has been in the past, and in the future may be, adversely affected by allegations made or reports issued by short sellers, analysts, activists or others regarding our business model, our management or our financial accounting. 22 following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. if similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. future sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments that constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, "securities") in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. we cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented. in october 2018, our board of directors approved a stock repurchase program totaling $500 million. in october 2019, our board of directors authorized an increase to our existing stock repurchase program under which the company may purchase up to an additional $500 million of our common stock, bringing the authorized total to $1.0 billion. we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares, and our repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1.8 billion of availability under our credit agreement ( $1.9 billion of availability reduced by $69 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). in addition, we had approximately $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured debt outstanding comprising $600 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due may 15, 2023 (the "u.s. notes (2023)"), 500 million ($561 million) aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due april 1, 2024 (the "euro notes (2024)"), and 1.0 billion ($1.1 billion) aggregate principal amount consisting of 750 million of 3.625% senior notes due 2026 (the "euro notes (2026)") and 250 million of 4.125% senior notes due 2028 (the "euro notes (2028)," together with the 2026 notes, the "euro notes (2026/28)," and together with the u.s. notes (2023), euro notes (2024), and euro notes (2026), the "senior notes"). borrowings under the credit agreement mature in january 2024. on january 10, 2020, we redeemed the u.s. notes (2023) at a redemption price equal to 101.583% of the principal amount of the u.s. notes (2023) plus accrued and unpaid interest. our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. for example, our debt and our debt service obligations could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; 23 limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and increase our cost of borrowing. in addition, if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. our senior notes do not impose any limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or protect against certain other types of transactions. although we are subject to our credit agreement for so long as it remains in effect, the indentures governing the senior notes do not restrict the future incurrence of unsecured indebtedness, guarantees or other obligations. the indentures contain certain limitations on our ability to incur liens on assets and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. however, these limitations are subject to important exceptions. in addition, the indentures do not contain many other restrictions, including certain restrictions contained in our credit agreement, including, without limitation, making investments, prepaying subordinated indebtedness or engaging in transactions with our affiliates. our credit agreement will permit, subject to specified conditions and limitations, the incurrence of a significant amount of additional indebtedness. as of december 31, 2019 , we would have been able to incur an additional $1.8 billion of indebtedness under our credit agreement ( $1.9 billion of availability reduced by $69 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the need to service such debt would increase. our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof); pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness; incur liens on assets; make certain investments or other restricted payments; engage in transactions with affiliates; sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies; guarantee indebtedness; and alter the business we conduct. as a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might 24 be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we hope to realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. additionally, our credit agreement and the indentures that govern our senior notes limit the use of the proceeds from certain dispositions of our assets; as a result, our credit agreement and our senior notes may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all of our debt service obligations. our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. funds may not be available or available on terms acceptable to us as a result of different factors, including but not limited to turmoil in the credit markets that results in the tightening of credit conditions and current or future regulations applicable to the financial institutions from whom we seek financing. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. there are restrictions in the indenture that governs the euro notes (2024), euro notes (2026) and euro notes (2028) on our ability to refinance such notes prior to january 1, 2024, april 1, 2021, and april 1, 2023, respectively. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly and could affect the value of our senior notes. certain borrowings under our credit agreement and the borrowing under our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. moreover, changes in market interest rates could affect the trading value of the senior notes. certain of our variable rate debt, including our revolving credit facility, currently uses the london interbank offered rate ("libor") as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. libor is the subject of recent proposals for reform. these reforms and other pressures may cause libor to disappear entirely or to perform differently than in the past. the consequences of these developments with respect to libor cannot be entirely predicted but could result in an increase in the cost of our variable rate debt. assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn and no interest rate swaps were in place, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a $36 million change in annual cash interest expense under our credit agreement and our accounts receivable securitization facility. repayment of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. we are a holding company and repayment of our senior notes will be dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are borrowers or guarantors of the indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the senior notes. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries and, under certain circumstances, distributions from our subsidiaries may be subject to taxes that reduce the amount of such distributions available to us. while the indentures governing the senior notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to restrict the payment of dividends or to restrict other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the senior notes. a downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior notes. credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital. credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include, among other items, our results of operations, business decisions that we make, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the economy. actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading. we believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates. a downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed 25 funds under our credit facilities. a downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our senior notes, preventing a holder from selling the senior notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affecting our ability to issue new notes in the future or incur other indebtedness upon favorable terms. the right to receive payments on the senior notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. our obligations under our senior notes and our guarantors' obligations under their guarantees of the senior notes are unsecured, but our and each co-borrower's obligations under our credit agreement and each guarantor's obligations under their respective guarantees of the credit agreement are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of most of our wholly-owned united states subsidiaries and the stock of certain of our non-united states subsidiaries. if we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our credit agreement, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. if we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of our senior notes, even if an event of default exists under the applicable indenture governing the senior notes. furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under our senior notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the senior notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. in any such event, because the senior notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims by holders of the senior notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy claims fully. as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1.8 billion of availability under our credit agreement ( $1.9 billion of availability reduced by $69 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). united states federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the senior notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the senior notes and the guarantees, and require holders of the senior notes to return payments received from us or the guarantors. our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are obligors under the credit agreement guarantee the obligations under our senior notes. in addition, certain subsidiaries of the issuer of the euro notes (2024) guarantee the obligations under the euro notes (2024). the issuance of our senior notes and the issuance of the guarantees by the guarantors may be subject to review under state and federal laws if a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or a lawsuit, including in circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future date by, or on behalf of, our unpaid creditors or the unpaid creditors of a guarantor. under the federal bankruptcy laws of the united states and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a court may avoid or otherwise decline to enforce the senior notes, or a guarantor's guarantee, or may subordinate the senior notes, or such guarantee, to our or the applicable guarantor's existing and future indebtedness. while the relevant laws may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, a court might do so if it found that when indebtedness under the senior notes was issued, or when the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee, or, in some jurisdictions, when payments became due under the senior notes, or such guarantee, the issuer or the applicable guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. a court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the senior notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the senior notes. thus, if the guarantees were legally challenged, any guarantee could be subject to the claim that, since the guarantee was incurred for our benefit, and only indirectly for the benefit of the guarantor, the obligations of the applicable guarantor were incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration. if a court were to void the issuance of the senior notes or any guarantee, a holder of the senior notes would no longer have any claim against us or the applicable guarantor. in the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, a holder of the senior notes may not receive any repayment on the senior notes. further, the avoidance of the senior notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries' other debt, which could result in acceleration of that debt. the measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. generally, however, an issuer or a guarantor, as applicable, would be considered insolvent if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair value of its assets; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. 26 a court might also void the senior notes, or a guarantee, without regard to the above factors, if the court found that the senior notes were incurred or issued or the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors. we cannot give any assurance as to what standard a court would apply in determining whether we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard, or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that it would not determine that we or a guarantor were indeed insolvent on that date; that any payments to the holders of the senior notes (including under the guarantees) did not constitute preferences, fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds; or that the issuance of the senior notes and the guarantees would not be subordinated to our or any guarantor's other debt. in addition, any payment by us or a guarantor pursuant to the senior notes, or its guarantee, could be avoided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors, and accordingly the court might direct holders of the senior notes to repay any amounts already received from us or such guarantor. among other things, under u.s. bankruptcy law, any payment by us pursuant to the senior notes or by a guarantor under a guarantee made at a time we or such guarantor were found to be insolvent could be voided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors if such payment is made to an insider within a one-year period prior to a bankruptcy filing or within 90 days for any outside party and such payment would give such insider or outsider party more than such party would have received in a distribution under the bankruptcy code in a hypothetical chapter 7 case. although each guarantee contains a savings clause intended to limit the subsidiary guarantor's liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its subsidiary guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective as a legal matter to protect any subsidiary guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer law. in that regard, in official committee of unsecured creditors of tousa, inc. v citicorp north america, inc ., the united states bankruptcy court in the southern district of florida held that a savings clause similar to the savings clause included in our indentures was unenforceable. as a result, the subsidiary guarantees were found to be fraudulent conveyances. the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit subsequently affirmed the liability findings of the bankruptcy court without ruling directly on the enforceability of savings clauses generally. if the decision of the bankruptcy court in tousa were followed by other courts, the risk that the guarantees would be deemed fraudulent conveyances would be significantly increased. to the extent a court avoids the senior notes or any of the guarantees as fraudulent transfers or holds the senior notes or any of the guarantees unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the senior notes would cease to have any direct claim against us or the applicable guarantor. if a court were to take this action, our or the applicable guarantor's assets would be applied first to satisfy our or the applicable guarantor's other liabilities, if any, and might not be applied to the payment of the senior notes. sufficient funds to repay the senior notes may not be available from other sources, including the remaining guarantors, if any. in addition, the euro notes (2024) and the related guarantees may be subject to avoidance under the laws of foreign jurisdictions, including italy and czech republic, to the extent that we, the issuer of the euro notes (2024), or any of the guarantors (as applicable) were to be the subject of an insolvency or related proceeding in such jurisdiction(s). not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our credit agreement or our senior notes, and the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on such obligations. not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the credit agreement, our u.s. notes (2023), euro notes (2024), euro notes (2026), and euro notes (2028). in the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves or otherwise winds up, holders of its indebtedness and its trade creditors generally will be entitled to payment on their claims from the assets of that subsidiary before any of those assets are made available to the lenders under the credit agreement or the holders of the senior notes. consequently, claims in respect of the credit agreement and the senior notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors of such instruments, including trade payables, and any claims of third party holders of preferred equity interests, if any, in our non-guarantor subsidiaries. for the year ended december 31, 2019 , our subsidiaries that are not borrowers under or do not guarantee the credit agreement and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023) represented approximately 51% and 30% of our total revenue and operating income, respectively. in addition, these non-guarantor subsidiaries represented approximately 54% and 55% of our total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of december 31, 2019 (excluding, in each case, intercompany amounts). as of the same date, our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the credit agreement or the u.s. notes (2023) had approximately $2.5 billion of outstanding indebtedness (which includes $662 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities by foreign subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facilities but that do not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023)). the group of subsidiaries that does not guarantee the euro notes (2024) is similar to the group that does not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023), euro notes (2026) and euro notes (2028), except that, in addition to the issuer of the euro notes (2024), there are four subsidiaries in the group that do not guarantee the u.s. notes (2023), euro notes (2026) and euro notes (2028) that guarantee the euro notes (2024). we may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control or pursuant to an asset sale offer. upon a change of control, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, the holders of the senior notes will have the right to require us to offer to purchase all of the senior notes then outstanding at a price equal to 101% of their 27 principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. such a change of control would also be an event of default under our credit agreement. in order to obtain sufficient funds to pay amounts due under the credit agreement and the purchase price of the outstanding senior notes, we expect that we would have to refinance our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness on reasonable terms, if at all. our failure to offer to purchase all outstanding senior notes or to purchase all validly tendered senior notes would be an event of default under the indenture. such an event of default may cause the acceleration of our other debt. our other debt also may contain restrictions or repayment requirements with respect to specified events or transactions that constitute a change of control under the indenture. the definition of change of control in the indentures governing the senior notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. there is no precise established definition of the phrase substantially all under applicable law. accordingly, the ability of a holder of senior notes to require us to repurchase its senior notes as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person may be uncertain. in addition, in certain circumstances as specified in the indentures governing the senior notes, we will be required to commence an asset sale offer, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, pursuant to which we will be obligated to purchase certain senior notes at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest with the proceeds we receive from certain asset sales. our other debt may contain restrictions that would limit or prohibit us from completing any such asset sale offer. in particular, our credit agreement contains provisions that require us, upon the sale of certain assets, to apply all of the proceeds from such asset sale to the prepayment of amounts due under the credit agreement. the mandatory prepayment obligations under the credit agreement will be effectively senior to our obligations to make an asset sale offer with respect to the senior notes under the terms of the indentures governing the senior notes. our failure to purchase any such senior notes when required under the indentures would be an event of default under the indentures. key terms of the senior notes will be suspended if the notes achieve investment grade ratings and no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. many of the covenants in the indentures governing the senior notes will be suspended if the senior notes are rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's provided at such time no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, including those covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur liens and to enter into certain other transactions. there can be no assurance that the senior notes will ever be rated investment grade. however, suspension of these covenants would allow us to engage in certain transactions that would not be permitted while these covenants were in force (although provisions under our other debt, like the credit agreement, may continue to restrict us from engaging in these transactions), and the effects of any such transactions will be permitted to remain in place even if the senior notes are subsequently downgraded below investment grade. the liquidity and market value of the senior notes may change due to a variety of factors. the liquidity of any trading market in the senior notes, and the market price quoted for the senior notes, may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for these types of securities, changes in interest rates, changes in our ratings, and changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industries generally. we rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity. we have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market. this arrangement expires in november 2021. in the event that the market for commercial paper were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in: foreign exchange rates; interest rates; and commodity prices. foreign exchange rates foreign currency fluctuations may impact the financial results we report for the portions of our business that operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our operations outside of the u.s. represented 50.3% and 47.9% of our revenue during 2019 and 2018 , respectively. an increase or decrease in the strength of the u.s. dollar against these currencies by 10% would result in a 5.0% change in our consolidated revenue and a 2.9% change in our operating income for the year ended december 31, 2019 . see our results of operations discussion in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our year over year results. additionally, we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products from foreign countries, primarily in europe and asia. to the extent that our inventory purchases are not denominated in the functional currency of the purchasing location, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. in several of our operations, we purchase inventory from manufacturers in taiwan in u.s. dollars, which exposes us to fluctuations in the relationship between the local functional currency and the u.s. dollar, as well as fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar. we hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations related to a portion of inventory purchases in our europe operations, but the notional amount and fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2019 were immaterial. we do not currently attempt to hedge foreign currency exposure related to our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in our north america operations, and we may not be able to pass on any resulting price increases to our customers. other than with respect to a portion of our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases, we do not hold derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency risk. our net investment in foreign operations is partially hedged by the foreign currency denominated borrowings we use to fund foreign acquisitions; however, our ability to use foreign currency denominated borrowings to finance our foreign operations may be limited based on local tax laws. we have elected not to hedge the foreign currency risk related to the interest payments on foreign borrowings as we generate cash flows in the local currencies that can be used to fund debt payments. as of december 31, 2019 , we had outstanding borrowings of 500 million under our euro notes (2024), 1.0 billion under our euro notes (2026/28), and 208 million, 229 million, cad $130 million, and sek 270 million under our revolving credit facilities. as of december 31, 2018 , we had outstanding borrowings of 500 million under our euro notes (2024), 1.0 billion under our euro notes (2026/28), and 290 million, 163 million, cad $130 million, and sek 275 million under our revolving credit facilities. interest rates our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facilities, where interest rates are tied to the prime rate, libor or cdor. therefore, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching the currency, effective dates and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts are included as adjustments to interest expense. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a.; bank of america, n.a.; citizens, n.a.; hsbc bank usa, n.a.; and banco bilbao vizcaya argentaria, s.a.). as of december 31, 2019 , we held eight interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $480 million of u.s. dollar-denominated notional amount debt. our interest rate swap contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. these swaps have maturity dates ranging from january 2021 through june 2021. as of december 31, 2019 , the fair value of the interest rate swap contracts was an asset of $3 million . the values of such contracts are subject to changes in interest rates. in addition to these interest rate swaps, as of december 31, 2019 we held four cross currency swap agreements for a total notional amount of $467 million ( 435 million) with maturity dates in october 2020 and january 2021. these cross currency swaps contain an interest rate swap component and a foreign currency forward contract component that, combined with related intercompany financing arrangements, effectively convert variable rate u.s. dollar-denominated borrowings into fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. the swaps are intended to reduce uncertainty in cash flows in u.s. dollars and euros in connection with intercompany financing arrangements. the cross currency swaps were also executed with banks we believe 60 are creditworthy (wells fargo bank, n.a.; bank of america, n.a.; and mufg bank, ltd. ("mufg") (formerly known as the bank of tokyo-mitsubishi ufj, ltd.)). as of december 31, 2019 , the fair values of the interest rate swap components of the cross currency swaps were an immaterial asset and a liability of $1 million, and the fair values of the foreign currency forward components were an asset of $3 million and a liability of $23 million. the values of these contracts are subject to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. in total, we had 59% of our variable rate debt under our credit facilities at fixed rates at december 31, 2019 compared to 57% at december 31, 2018 . see note 10, "long-term obligations " and note 11, "derivative instruments and hedging activities " to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. at december 31, 2019 , we had approximately $ 663 million of variable rate debt that was not hedged. using sensitivity analysis, a 100 basis point movement in interest rates would change interest expense by $7 million over the next twelve months. redeeming the u.s. notes (2023) in january 2020 increased our unhedged variable rate debt by $415 million . commodity prices we are exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals (including precious metals such as platinum, palladium and rhodium). market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory and the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the effect on our revenue from metal price fluctuations and inventory cost changes, and there is no guarantee that the vehicle costs will decrease or increase at the same rate as the metals prices. therefore, we can experience positive or negative gross margin effects in periods of rising or falling metals prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. additionally, if market prices were to change at a greater rate than our vehicle acquisition costs, we could experience a positive or negative effect on our operating margin. the average of scrap metal prices for 2019 has decreased 28% over the average for 2018 . 61risk factors risks relating to our business we face intense competition from local, national, and internet-based light vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the light vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem products, recycled oem products, and aftermarket products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of light vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of light vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries. in certain regions of the u.s., local light vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the recycled oem products industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. an adverse change in our relationships with auction companies or our suppliers could increase our expenses and hurt our relationships with our customers. most of our salvage inventory consists of vehicles offered at salvage auctions by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not have contracts with any auction company. according to industry analysts, three companies control over 50% of the salvage auction market in the u.s. in some localities, the automotive auction business may be even more highly concentrated. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, auction companies have begun to allow bids to be submitted on salvage vehicles through the internet, which increases the number of potential bidders and may increase our cost of goods sold for recycled oem products. we also acquire some of our inventory directly from insurance companies, original equipment manufacturers, aftermarket parts manufacturers, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to 13 discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. in addition, we purchase aftermarket parts primarily from foreign manufacturers in taiwan. in the event that our business relationships with these suppliers deteriorated or terminated, or in the event that the importing of products into the u.s. from taiwan or the exporting of products by taiwan to the u.s. was disrupted, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting inability to service our customers. we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of recycled oem or aftermarket products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled oem products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled oem products. restrictions on the products we are able to sell could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. we became involved in the aftermarket products business upon the closing of an acquisition in february 2004. since 1998, most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional bills of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of light vehicle replacement products. in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. if our business relationships with insurance companies end, we may lose important sales opportunities. we rely on business relationships with certain insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated at any time. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; the exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other third parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. 14 under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries must receive certain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies often resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. proposed regulations under the national stolen passenger motor vehicle information system could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. this law included the establishment of the national stolen passenger motor vehicle information system to track and monitor stolen automotive parts. in april 2002, the department of justice published for comment proposed regulations to implement this system. the proposed regulations require, among other things, that insurance companies, salvagers, dismantlers, recyclers, and repairers inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the vehicle identification number and the part number for any covered major part that possesses the vehicle identification number. the requirement to collect this information would place burdens and costs on us that otherwise would not normally exist, and could discourage our customers from purchasing our products if the proposed regulations are adopted. we could be subject to product liability claims. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business or financial condition. we may lose business if recent litigation involving the use of aftermarket parts results in insurance companies modifying arrangements affecting the use of recycled oem or aftermarket products in the repair process. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ( avery v. state farm ), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem parts to repair damaged vehicles when use of such parts did not restore the vehicle to its pre-loss condition. the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem parts and the alleged inferiority of those parts. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract on the part of state farm. as a result of this case, some insurance companies had reduced or eliminated their use of 15 aftermarket products. although our products are primarily recycled oem parts, we entered the aftermarket products business through an acquisition in february 2004. because the decision by the illinois supreme court was rendered so recently, we are uncertain how the decision will affect the practices of insurance companies in the future, but our financial results could be affected, perhaps adversely, if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled oem products from us due to a fear of similar claims with respect to such products. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines, our business could suffer. because our business depends on vehicle accidents for both the supply of recycled oem products and the demand for repairs using our products, factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the congestion of traffic, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, and the condition of roadways, impact our business. in this regard, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. moreover, rising fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline as motorists seek alternative transportation options and this also could lead to a decline in accidents. we may not be able to successfully acquire new operations or integrate future acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company or division personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. in connection with future acquisitions, we may assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire. these liabilities, including liabilities for environmental-related costs, could materially and adversely affect our business. we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. 16 our credit facility imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and requires us to meet certain financial tests. our credit facility contains certain operating and financial restrictions that limit or prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions, including the following: incurring or guarantying additional debt; paying dividends or other distributions to our stockholders or redeeming, repurchasing, or retiring our capital stock or subordinated obligations; making investments and capital expenditures; creating liens on our assets; selling, transferring, leasing, licensing, or otherwise disposing of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; engaging in transactions with stockholders and affiliates; engaging in mergers, consolidations, or acquisitions; engaging in any material line of business substantially different from, and unrelated to, those lines of business currently carried on by us; and making changes to our equity capital structure or amending our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, or any stockholder rights agreement. the credit facility also requires that we satisfy certain financial tests. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit facility. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facility or it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. our future capital needs may require that we seek debt financing or additional equity funding that, if not available, could cause our business to suffer. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business will be negatively affected. 17 our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in the pricing of new oem replacement products; the availability and cost of inventory; variations in vehicle accident rates; competition in the vehicle replacement parts industry; changes in state or federal laws or regulations affecting our business; changes in the types of replacement parts that insurance carriers will accept in the repair process; our ability to integrate and manage our acquisitions successfully; fluctuations in fuel prices; changes in the demand for our products and the supply of our inventory due to severity of weather and seasonality of weather patterns; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations, and infrastructure; and declines in the values of our assets. due to the foregoing factors, our operating results in future periods can be expected to fluctuate. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we rely on information technology in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. we use information technology systems owned by other companies for management of our facilities and our financial functions. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. in the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our 18 business. we may be unsuccessful if we try to develop our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of future acquisitions. goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2005, our total goodwill, subject to future impairment testing, was approximately $181.8 million. challenges to the validity of aftermarket products could adversely effect our business. original equipment manufacturers have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the original equipment manufacturers have brought such claims in federal court and with the united states international trade commission. to the extent that the original equipment manufacturers are successful with these claims, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products which could have an adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our common stock our executive officers, directors, and their affiliates hold a large percentage of our stock and their interests may differ from other stockholders. as of december 31, 2005, our executive officers, directors, and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 21% of our common stock. if they were to act together, these stockholders would have significant influence over most matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of directors, any amendments to our certificate of incorporation, and certain significant corporate transactions. these stockholders may take these actions even if they are opposed by our other stockholders. in addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into transactions that may be viewed as beneficial to us or our other stockholders. future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock in connection with the exercise of outstanding options or in connection with future acquisitions. certain of our existing stockholders are parties to a registration rights agreement that provides such holders with the right to require us to effect the registration of their shares of common stock 19 in specific circumstances. in addition, if we propose to register any of our common stock under the securities act of 1933, whether for our own account or otherwise, some existing stockholders may be entitled to include their shares of common stock in that registration. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede a merger, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facility, where interest rates are tied to either the prime rate or ibor. as of december 31, 2005, we had $38.0 million outstanding under our credit facility. our previous secured credit facility required that we enter into an interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our interest rate risk on a portion of the balance outstanding. we do not however, as a matter of policy, enter into derivative contracts for trading or speculative purposes. the swap agreement, which expired on august 22, 2004, had a notional amount of $10.0 million under which we paid a fixed rate of interest of 2.65% and received payments based upon variable rates. the swap agreement was not designated as a hedging instrument and, as a result, changes in the fair value of the swap agreement were included in current period earnings. we recorded non-cash credits of $69,000 and $90,000 during 2003 and 2004, respectively, related to the change in fair value of the interest rate swap agreement. based upon our variable rate debt at december 31, 2005, a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates would result in an annual increase in interest expense of approximately $0.4 million. the company is also exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket parts in taiwan. while all transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the new taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket parts. we might not be able to pass on any price increases to customers. under our present policies, we do not attempt to hedge this currency exchange rate exposure. our investment in our central american operations is not material, and we do not attempt to hedge our foreign currency risk related to such operations. 39risk factors risks relating to our business we face intense competition from local, national, and internet-based light vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the light vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem products, recycled oem products, aftermarket products, and refurbished products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of light vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of light vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries. in certain regions of the u.s., local light vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the recycled oem products industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. 14 an adverse change in our relationships with auction companies or our suppliers could increase our expenses and hurt our ability to serve our customers. most of our salvage inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not have contracts with any auction company. according to industry analysts, three companies control over 65% of the salvage auction market in the u.s. in some localities, the automotive auction business may be even more highly concentrated. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we are facing increased competition in the purchase of salvage vehicles from shredders and scrap recyclers, internet-based buyers, and others. this increase in the number of bidders may increase our cost of goods sold for recycled oem products. we also acquire some of our inventory directly from insurance companies, original equipment manufacturers, aftermarket parts manufacturers, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. in addition, we purchase aftermarket parts primarily from foreign manufacturers in taiwan. in the event that our business relationships with these suppliers deteriorated or terminated, or in the event that the importing of products into the u.s. from taiwan or the exporting of products by taiwan to the u.s. was disrupted, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting inability to service our customers. we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of recycled oem or aftermarket products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled oem products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled oem products. restrictions on the products we are able to sell could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. we became involved in the aftermarket products business upon the closing of an acquisition in february 2004. since 1998, most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of light vehicle replacement products. in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. if our business relationships with insurance companies end, we may lose important sales opportunities. we rely on business relationships with several insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated at any time. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 15 we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; the exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other third parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies often resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. proposed regulations under the national stolen passenger motor vehicle information system could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. this law included the establishment of the national stolen passenger motor vehicle information system to track and monitor stolen automotive parts. in april 2002, the department of justice published for comment proposed regulations to implement this system. the proposed regulations require, among other things, that insurance companies, salvagers, dismantlers, recyclers, and repairers inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the vehicle identification number and the part number for any covered major part that possesses the vehicle identification number. the requirement to collect this information would place burdens and costs on us that otherwise would not normally exist, and could discourage our customers from purchasing our products if the proposed regulations are adopted. we could be subject to product liability claims. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 16 we may lose business if recent litigation involving the use of aftermarket parts results in insurance companies modifying arrangements affecting the use of recycled oem or aftermarket products in the repair process. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ( avery v. state farm ), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem parts to repair damaged vehicles when use of such parts did not restore the vehicle to its pre-loss condition. the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem parts and the alleged inferiority of those parts. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract on the part of state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies had reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. although our products are primarily recycled oem parts, we entered the aftermarket products business through an acquisition in february 2004. our financial results could be affected, perhaps adversely, if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled oem products from us due to a fear of similar claims with respect to such products. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines, our business could suffer. because our business depends on vehicle accidents for both the supply of recycled oem products and the demand for repairs using our products, factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the congestion of traffic, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, and the condition of roadways, impact our business. in this regard, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. moreover, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline as motorists seek alternative transportation options and this also could lead to a decline in accidents. we may not be able to successfully acquire new operations or integrate future acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company or division personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and 17 we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. in connection with future acquisitions, we may assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire. these liabilities, including liabilities for environmental-related costs, could materially and adversely affect our business. we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. our credit facility imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and requires us to meet certain financial tests. our credit facility contains certain operating and financial restrictions that limit or prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions, including the following: incurring or guarantying additional debt; paying dividends or other distributions to our stockholders or redeeming, repurchasing, or retiring our capital stock or subordinated obligations; making investments and capital expenditures; creating liens on our assets; selling, transferring, leasing, licensing, or otherwise disposing of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; engaging in transactions with stockholders and affiliates; engaging in mergers, consolidations, or acquisitions; engaging in any material line of business substantially different from, and unrelated to, those lines of business currently carried on by us; and making changes to our equity capital structure or amending our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, or any stockholder rights agreement. the credit facility also requires that we satisfy certain financial tests. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit facility. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facility or it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. our future capital needs may require that we seek debt financing or additional equity funding that, if not available, could cause our business to suffer. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business will be negatively affected. 18 our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in the pricing of new oem replacement products; the availability and cost of inventory; variations in vehicle accident rates; competition in the vehicle replacement parts industry; changes in state or federal laws or regulations affecting our business; changes in the types of replacement parts that insurance carriers will accept in the repair process; our ability to integrate and manage our acquisitions successfully; fluctuations in fuel prices; changes in the demand for our products and the supply of our inventory due to severity of weather and seasonality of weather patterns; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations, and infrastructure; and declines in the values of our assets. due to the foregoing factors, our operating results in future periods can be expected to fluctuate. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we rely on information technology in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. we use information technology systems owned by other companies for management of our facilities and our financial functions. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. in the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the 19 costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of future acquisitions. goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2006, our total goodwill, subject to future impairment testing, was approximately $246.2 million. challenges to the validity of aftermarket products could adversely effect our business. original equipment manufacturers have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the original equipment manufacturers have brought such claims in federal court and with the united states international trade commission. in december 2005, ford global technologies, llc initiated a complaint with the international trade commission against six companies, including a competitor of ours, keystone automotive industries, inc., alleging that certain aftermarket parts imported into the united states infringed on 14 design patents held by ford global. we were not named in the complaint, although the outcome would affect all persons and entities who import or distribute the parts, including us. in december 2006, an administrative law judge of the international trade commission preliminarily ruled that seven of the ford global design patents were valid and that the importation of automotive parts covered by these seven patents violated section 337 of the tariff act of 1930. the ruling of the administrative law judge is not final. it will be reviewed by the international trade commission. if the international trade commission agrees with the ruling, it will issue an order prohibiting further importation of automotive parts covered by the patents. the parties to the action can appeal the commission final decision to the united states circuit court of appeals for the federal circuit. to the extent that the original equipment manufacturers are successful with intellectual property infringement claims, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products which could have an adverse effect on our business. if we are subsequently named as a defendant in any such claims, we would likely incur significant expenses defending the claims. even if we are not named in any such claims, written allegations that we are infringing another party intellectual property rights could involve significant expense to investigate. 20 risks relating to our common stock our executive officers, directors, and their affiliates hold a large percentage of our stock and their interests may differ from other stockholders. as of december 31, 2006, our executive officers, directors, and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 21% of our common stock. if they were to act together, these stockholders would have significant influence over most matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of directors, any amendments to our certificate of incorporation, and certain significant corporate transactions. these stockholders may take these actions even if they are opposed by our other stockholders. in addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into transactions that may be viewed as beneficial to us or our other stockholders. future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock in connection with the exercise of outstanding options or in connection with future acquisitions. certain of our existing stockholders are parties to a registration rights agreement that provides such holders with the right to require us to effect the registration of their shares of common stock in specific circumstances. in addition, if we propose to register any of our common stock under the securities act of 1933, whether for our own account or otherwise, some existing stockholders may be entitled to include their shares of common stock in that registration. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede a merger, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facility, where interest rates are tied to either the prime rate or ibor. as of december 31, 2006, we had $86.0 million outstanding under our credit facility. we do not, as a matter of policy, enter into derivative contracts for trading or speculative purposes. based upon our variable rate debt at december 31, 2006, a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates would result in an annual increase in interest expense of approximately $0.9 million. the company is also exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket parts in taiwan. while all transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the new taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket parts. we might not be able to pass on any price increases to customers. under our present policies, we do not attempt to hedge this currency exchange rate exposure. our investment in our central american operations is not material, and we do not attempt to hedge our foreign currency risk related to such operations. 43risk factors risks relating to our business our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic conditions in the united states. the recent declining economic conditions in the u.s. have adversely impacted our business. such conditions have resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims and a reduction of vehicle repairs. in the event that the u.s. economic conditions do not improve or continue to decline, we expect that our business will continue to be negatively affected. we face intense competition from local, national, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem products, recycled oem products, aftermarket products, and refurbished products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national providers, 15 table of contents and internet-based suppliers. providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the recycled oem products industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that substantially in excess of 50% of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. the oems are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on perceived quality. from time to time, oems have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to meet the lower-priced alternative products. if such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. oems have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the united states international trade commission. since our acquisition of keystone automotive industries, inc. in october 2007, the distribution of aftermarket products constitutes a significantly larger percentage of our business. in december 2005, ford global technologies, llc initiated a complaint with the international trade commission against six companies, including keystone, alleging that certain aftermarket parts imported into the united states infringed on 14 design patents held by ford global. in december 2006, an administrative law judge of the international trade commission preliminarily ruled that seven of the ford global design patents were valid and that the importation of automotive parts covered by these seven patents violated section 337 of the tariff act of 1930. the international trade commission affirmed the ruling of the administrative law judge and issued an order prohibiting further importation of automotive parts covered by the patents. the parties to the action have appealed the decision to the united states circuit court of appeals for the federal circuit. in may 2008, ford global filed another complaint with the international trade commission. the complaint alleges that lkq corporation, keystone automotive industries, inc, and six other entities import and sell certain automotive parts relating to the 2005 ford mustang that infringe eight ford design patents. on may 29, 2008, the international trade commission issued a notice of investigation based on ford complaint and has set november 2009 as the target date for completion of the investigation. united states patent and trademark office records indicate that oems are seeking and obtaining more design patents then they have in the past. to the extent that the oems are successful with intellectual property infringement claims, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, an unexpected result of the intellectual property infringement litigation is that capa is decertifying parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of capa certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of capa certified aftermarket parts. 16 table of contents an adverse change in our relationships with auction companies or our suppliers could increase our expenses and hurt our ability to serve our customers. most of our salvage inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not have contracts with any auction company. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies controls a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we are facing increased competition in the purchase of salvage vehicles from shredders and scrap recyclers, internet-based buyers, and others. this increase in the number of bidders may increase our cost of goods sold for recycled oem products. most states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal and legitimate purposes. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce or eliminate these regulations, which if successful would further increase the number of bidders. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, aftermarket parts manufacturers, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. we are dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products. although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, transportation delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china and taiwan. because a substantial volume of our sales involves parts manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. if our business relationships with insurance companies end, we may lose important sales opportunities. we rely on business relationships with several insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated at any time. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ( avery v. state farm ), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem parts to repair damaged vehicles when use of such parts did not restore the vehicle to its pre-loss condition. the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem parts and the alleged inferiority of those parts. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract on the part of state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies had reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be affected, perhaps adversely, if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled oem products from us due to a fear of similar claims with respect to such products. 17 table of contents we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of recycled oem, aftermarket or refurbished products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled oem products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled oem products. restrictions on the products we are able to sell could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. we may not be able to successfully acquire new operations or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company or division personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect. the acquisition of keystone in october 2007 was our largest acquisition to date. because of the magnitude of the keystone acquisition, significant integration challenges remain, including the realization of the total projected cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements that we anticipated. in connection with future acquisitions, we may assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire. these liabilities, including liabilities for environmental-related costs, could materially and adversely affect our business. we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. financing the keystone acquisition substantially increased our leverage and involves restrictions on our business. in connection with the acquisition of keystone, we entered into a senior secured debt financing facility with a group of lenders. our total outstanding indebtedness (including bank financing, letters of credit, and notes 18 table of contents payable in connection with acquisitions) as of december 31, 2008 was $666.1 million. the increase in our indebtedness may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to fund capital expenditure or working capital needs because we will require additional funds to service our indebtedness. in addition, the senior secured credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions and requires that we satisfy certain financial covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facility or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. lehman commercial paper inc. is the administrative agent and swing line lender under our credit agreement and had committed to provide $15 million under the revolving credit facility that is part of the credit agreement. lehman commercial paper filed for protection under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code on october 15, 2008. accordingly, our access to same day borrowing of swing line loans and the $15 million of revolving credit is doubtful. we do not believe that an inability to draw on the $15 million revolving credit facility or to access our swing line facility will have a material adverse impact on us. however, to the extent that other lenders that are part of our credit agreement fail or file for bankruptcy protection, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility may be further adversely affected, which could harm our ability to do business. our future capital needs may require that we seek debt financing or additional equity funding that, if not available, could cause our business to suffer. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. however, the recent turmoil in the credit markets has resulted in severely tighter credit conditions, which could affect our ability to raise additional funds until the turmoil subsides. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business will be negatively affected. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. due to these factors, our operating results in future periods can be expected to fluctuate. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. fluctuations in the prices of scrap metal and other metals could adversely affect our financial results. our wholesale recycled oem operations and our self-service retail recycled oem operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self-service business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive crush only vehicles from 19 table of contents other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated due to market factors, sometimes significantly. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of inventory value could be required. the cost of our wholesale recycled oem and our self-service inventory purchases may also decrease as a result of falling scrap metal and other metals prices, but there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. our operating results in the fourth quarter of 2008 were adversely affected by the declining scrap metal and other metal prices as described in the results of operations section in item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. if we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of future acquisitions. goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2008, our total goodwill, subject to future impairment testing, was approximately $923.8 million. for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see goodwill impairment in the critical accounting estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines, our business could suffer. because our business depends on vehicle accidents for both the supply of recycled oem products and the demand for repairs using our products, factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the congestion of traffic, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, and the condition of roadways, impact our business. in this regard, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. to the extent vehicle manufacturers develop new accident avoidance systems, the number and severity of accidents could decrease. moreover, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline as motorists seek alternative transportation options and this also could lead to a decline in accidents. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose 20 table of contents the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we rely on information technology in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. we use information technology systems owned by other companies for management of our facilities and our financial functions. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. in the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 21 table of contents regulations that may be issued under the anti-car theft act could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any covered major part. the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may further discourage the use by such shops of recycled products. risks relating to our common stock future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. the credit agreement we entered into in connection with our acquisition of keystone provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facility, where interest rates are tied to either the prime rate or libor. in march 2008, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate, matching effective and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks (jp morgan chase bank, n.a. and deutsche bank ag) that we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currency that matches the underlying debt instrument. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts will be included as adjustments to interest expense in our consolidated income statement. as of december 31, 2008, three interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $500 million of notional amount were outstanding with various maturity dates through april 2011. all of these contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. the fair market value of our outstanding interest rate swap contracts at december 31, 2008 was a liability of approximately $14.5 million, and the value of such contracts is subject to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2008, we had unhedged variable rate debt of $138.3 million. using sensitivity analysis to measure the impact of a 100 basis point movement in the interest rate, interest expense would change by $1.4 million annually. we are also exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory as well as the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the metal price fluctuations, which influence our revenue, and any inventory cost changes. therefore, we can experience positive or negative margin effects in periods of rising or falling metal prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. scrap metal and other metal prices declined significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008, which had a negative effect on our revenue and margins. this trend will continue until inventory costs decrease by an amount commensurate with the decline of scrap metal and other metal prices. additionally, we are exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket parts in taiwan. while all transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket parts. we might not be able to pass on any price increases to customers. under our present policies, we do not attempt to hedge this currency exchange rate exposure. our investment in our operations in central america and canada is not material, and we do not attempt to hedge our foreign currency risk related to such operations. 43 table of contentsrisk factors risks relating to our business our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic conditions in the united states. the declining economic conditions in the u.s. have adversely impacted our business. such conditions have resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims and a reduction of vehicle repairs. in the event that the u.s. economic conditions do not improve or continue to decline, we expect that our business will continue to be negatively affected. 18 table of contents we face intense competition from local, national, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem products, recycled products, aftermarket products, and refurbished products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that substantially in excess of 50% of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. the oems are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and perceived quality. from time to time, oems have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products. if such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. oems have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the united states international trade commission. since our acquisition of keystone automotive industries, inc. in october 2007, the distribution of aftermarket products constitutes a significantly larger percentage of our business. in december 2005 and may 2008, ford global technologies, llc filed complaints with the international trade commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket parts imported into the u.s. infringed on ford design patents. the parties settled these matters in april 2009 pursuant to a settlement arrangement that expires in september 2011. united states patent and trademark office records indicate that oems are seeking and obtaining more design patents then they have in the past. to the extent that the oems are successful with intellectual property infringement claims, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, an unexpected result of the intellectual property infringement litigation is that the certified automotive parts association ( capa ) is decertifying parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of capa certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket parts only if they have been certified by capa. an adverse change in our relationships with auction companies or our suppliers could increase our expenses and hurt our ability to serve our customers. most of our salvage inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with any auction company. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its 19 table of contents auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we are facing increased competition in the purchase of salvage vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters, and others. this increase in the number of bidders may increase our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. most states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce or eliminate these regulations, which if successful would further increase the number of bidders. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. we are dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, most of which are located in taiwan. although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, transportation delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china and taiwan. because a substantial volume of our sales involves parts manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. if our business relationships with insurance companies end, we may lose important sales opportunities. we rely on business relationships with several insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket parts than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance program. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ( avery v. state farm ), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement parts to repair damaged vehicles when use of such parts did not restore the vehicle to its pre-loss condition. the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement parts and the alleged inferiority of those parts. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of wholesale aftermarket, recycled or refurbished products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or 20 table of contents severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. restrictions on the products we are able to sell could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company or division personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could materially and adversely affect our business; our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. financing the keystone acquisition substantially increased our leverage and places restrictions on our business. in connection with the acquisition of keystone, we entered into a senior secured debt financing facility with a group of lenders. our total outstanding indebtedness (including bank financing, letters of credit, and notes payable in connection with acquisitions) as of december 31, 2009 was $628.9 million. the increase in our indebtedness may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to fund capital expenditure or working capital needs because we will require additional funds to service our indebtedness. in addition, the senior secured credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions and requires that we satisfy certain financial and other covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would 21 table of contents cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facility or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. our future capital needs may require that we seek debt financing or additional equity funding that, if not available, could cause our business to suffer. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. however, the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets has resulted in tighter credit conditions, which could affect our ability to raise additional funds. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price or the value of debt instruments to decline. fluctuations in the prices of metals or shipping costs could adversely affect our financial results. all of our recycle operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive crush only vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases may also decrease as a result of falling scrap metal and other metals prices. there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the price of steel is a component of the cost to manufacture parts for our aftermarket business. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of whom are located in asia. if the cost of steel or freight rose we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. if we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is 22 table of contents reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2009, our total goodwill, subject to future impairment testing, was $938.8 million. for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see goodwill impairment in the critical accounting estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines, our business could suffer. because our business depends on vehicle accidents for both the supply of wholesale recycled products and the demand for repairs using our products, factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the congestion of traffic, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, and the condition of roadways, impact our business. in this regard, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. to the extent oems develop new accident avoidance systems, the number and severity of accidents could decrease. moreover, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline and the number of miles driven to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options, and this also could lead to a decline in accidents. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we rely on information technology in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. some of the information technology systems we use for management of our facilities and our financial functions are leased from or operated by other companies. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. in the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. 23 table of contents if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business or financial condition. in addition, we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies that could be named as defendants in such lawsuits. further, such a claim, if substantiated, could impact our future revenue negatively. regulations that may be issued under the anti-car theft act could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any covered major part. the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on automotive parts recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may further discourage the use of recycled products by such shops. 24 table of contents risks relating to our common stock future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. the credit agreement we entered into in connection with our acquisition of keystone provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facility, where interest rates are tied to either the prime rate or libor. in march 2008, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching effective and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (jp morgan chase bank, n.a. and deutsche bank ag) and are denominated in currency that matches the underlying debt instrument. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts will be included as adjustments to interest expense in our consolidated income statement. as of december 31, 2009, three interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $500 million of notional amount were outstanding with various maturity dates through april 2011. all of these contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. the fair market value of our outstanding interest rate swap contracts at december 31, 2009 was a liability of approximately $10.2 million, and the value of such contracts is subject to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2009, we had unhedged variable rate debt of $95.7 million. using sensitivity analysis to measure the impact of a 100 basis point movement in the interest rate, interest expense would change by $1.0 million annually. we are also exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory as well as the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the metal price fluctuations, which influence our revenue, and any inventory cost changes. therefore, we can experience positive or negative margin effects in periods of rising or falling metal prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. additionally, we are exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket parts in taiwan. while all transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket parts. we might not be able to pass on any price increases to customers. under our present policies, we do not attempt to hedge this currency exchange rate exposure. we do not attempt to hedge our foreign currency risk related to our operations in central america and canada as our investment in such operations is not material. we maintain a canadian dollar term loan that had a balance of cdn $36.9 million as of december 31, 2009. we have not elected to hedge the foreign currency risk related to this term loan. 44 table of contentsrisk factors risks relating to our business our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic conditions in the u.s. the decline in economic conditions in the u.s. adversely impacted our business. such conditions have resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims and a reduction of vehicle repairs. in the event that the u.s. economic conditions decline further or do not improve, we expect that our business will continue to be negatively affected. we face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that substantially in excess of 50% of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. the oems are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. from time to time, oems have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products. if such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. oems have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the u.s. international trade commission. 18 table of contents in december 2005 and may 2008, ford global technologies, llc filed complaints with the international trade commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the u.s. infringed on ford design patents. the parties settled these matters in april 2009 pursuant to a settlement arrangement that expires in september 2011. u.s. patent and trademark office records indicate that oems are seeking and obtaining more design patents then they have in the past. to the extent that the oems are successful with intellectual property infringement claims, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. an adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or auction companies could increase our expenses and hurt our ability to serve our customers. we are dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, most of which are located in taiwan. although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china and taiwan. because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. most of our salvage inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with any auction company. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we are facing increased competition in the purchase of salvage vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters, and others. this increase in the number of bidders has increased and may continue to increase our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. most states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. if our business relationships with insurance companies end, we may lose important sales opportunities. we rely on business relationships with several insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 19 table of contents in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ( avery v. state farm ), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its pre-loss condition. the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of wholesale aftermarket, recycled or refurbished products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. restrictions on the products we are able to sell could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company or division personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could materially and adversely affect our business; 20 table of contents our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. our credit agreement places restrictions on our business. in 2007, we entered into a senior secured debt financing facility with a group of lenders. our total outstanding indebtedness (including bank financing, letters of credit, and notes payable in connection with acquisitions) as of december 31, 2010 was $627.8 million. the credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions and requires that we satisfy certain financial and other covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facility or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. our future capital needs may require that we seek debt financing or additional equity funding that, if not available, could cause our business to suffer. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. however, the recent turmoil in the credit markets has resulted in tighter credit conditions, which could affect our ability to raise additional funds. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price or the value of debt instruments to decline. fluctuations in the prices of metals or shipping costs could adversely affect our financial results. all of our recycled operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive crush only vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be 21 table of contents required. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases may also decrease as a result of falling scrap metal and other metals prices. however, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the price of steel is a component of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of whom are located in asia. if the cost of steel or freight rose we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. if we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2010, our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $1.0 billion. for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see goodwill impairment in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines, our business could suffer. because our business depends on vehicle accidents for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of wholesale recycled products, factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the congestion of traffic, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, the effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, and the condition of roadways, impact our business. in this regard, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. to the extent oems develop or are mandated by law to install new accident avoidance systems, the number and severity of accidents could decrease. moreover, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline and the number of miles driven to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options, and this also could lead to a decline in accidents. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. 22 table of contents we rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. some of the information technology systems and communication systems we use for management of our facilities and our financial functions are leased from or operated by other companies, while others are owned by us. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages of these or our own systems for whatever reason, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. in the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business or financial condition. in addition, we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies that could be named as defendants in such lawsuits. further, such a claim could negatively impact our future revenue. 23 table of contents regulations that may be issued under the anti-car theft act could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any covered major part. the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on automotive parts recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may further discourage the use of recycled products by such shops. we operate in canada and mexico which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. we have operations in canada and mexico. we are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. in addition, mexico is currently experiencing a heightened level of criminal activity that could affect our ability to maintain our supply of certain aftermarket products. risks relating to our common stock and financial structure future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, securities ) in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facility, where interest rates are tied to either the prime rate or libor. in march 2008, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching effective and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (jp morgan chasebank, n.a. and deutsche bank ag) and are denominated in currency that matches the underlying debt instrument. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts will be included as adjustments to interest expense in our consolidated income statement. as of december 31, 2010, we held two interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $450 million of notional amount with maturity dates in october 2015 ($250 million) and april 2011 ($200 million). additionally, as of december 31, 2010, we held an interest rate swap 45 table of contents contract on a notional amount of $100 million, effective in april 2011. this contract will replace a portion of the $200 million contract upon expiration in april 2011, and expires in october 2013. all of these contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2010, the fair market value of the $200 million notional amount swap was a liability of $1.4 million, while the fair market value of the other swap contracts was an asset of $4.8 million. the value of such contracts is subject to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2010, we had unhedged variable rate debt of $140.1 million, which will increase by $100 million in april 2011 when the $100 million notional amount swap replaces the $200 million notional amount swap currently in effect. using sensitivity analysis to measure the impact of a 100 basis point movement in the interest rate, interest expense would change by $2.1 million (after giving effect to the hedge expiration) over the next twelve months. to the extent that we have cash investments earning interest, a portion of interest expense increase resulting from the variable rate change would be mitigated by higher interest income. we are also exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory as well as the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the metal price fluctuations, which influences our revenue and any inventory cost changes. therefore, we can experience positive or negative margin effects in periods of rising or falling metal prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. in 2010, scrap metal and other metals prices increased to near all-time highs, contributing to our increased revenue. if market prices were to fall at a greater rate than our salvage acquisition costs, similar to our experience in the fourth quarter of 2008, we could experience a decline in gross margin rate. additionally, we are exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products in taiwan. while all transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket products. we might not be able to pass on any price increases to customers. under our present policies, we do not attempt to hedge this currency exchange rate exposure. we do not attempt to hedge our foreign currency risk related to our operations in central america and canada under our present policies. we maintain a canadian dollar term loan that had a balance of cdn $36.3 million as of december 31, 2010. we have not elected to hedge the foreign currency risk related to this term loan as we generate canadian dollar cash flows that can be used to fund debt payments. 46 table of contentsrisk factors risks relating to our business our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere. the decline in economic conditions in the u.s. adversely impacted our business. such conditions have resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims and a reduction of vehicle repairs. in the event that the u.s. economic conditions decline further or do not improve, we expect that our business will continue to be negatively affected. we recently expanded our operations to include the united kingdom. to the extent that the economic conditions in the u.k. deteriorate, our new business could be negatively affected. we face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. the vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of oem, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers. providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries, than we do. in certain regions of the u.s., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. as a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. we believe that substantially in excess of 50% of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by oems, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. the oems are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. we compete with the oems primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. from time to time, oems have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products. if such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. 20 claims by oems relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. oems have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. the oems have brought such claims in federal court and with the u.s. international trade commission. in december 2005 and may 2008, ford global technologies, llc filed complaints with the international trade commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the u.s. infringed on ford design patents. the parties settled these matters in april 2009 pursuant to a settlement arrangement that expires in march 2015. u.s. patent and trademark office records indicate that oems are seeking and obtaining more design patents then they have in the past. to the extent that the oems are successful with intellectual property infringement claims, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products which could have an adverse effect on our business. we will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. in addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. an adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or auction companies could increase our expenses and hurt our ability to serve our customers. we are dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, most of which are located in taiwan. although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between china and taiwan. because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. most of our salvage inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the u.s. we do not typically have contracts with any auction company. according to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the u.s. if an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. moreover, we are facing increased competition in the purchase of salvage vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters, and others. this larger number of bidders has caused and may continue to cause our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products to increase. some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. we also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, oems, and others. to the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. 21 if our business relationships with insurance companies end, we may lose important sales opportunities. our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative parts usage by automotive insurance companies. in some places that we operate, alternative parts usage is low, and there can be no assurance that such usage will increase. we also rely on business relationships with several insurance companies. these insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. the business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. we rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in an illinois lawsuit involving state farm mutual automobile insurance company ( avery v. state farm ), a jury decided in october 1999 that state farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-oem replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its pre-loss condition. the jury found that state farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-oem replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. the jury assessed damages against state farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the illinois consumer fraud act. in april 2001, the illinois appellate court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. on august 18, 2005, the illinois supreme court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by state farm. the u.s. supreme court declined to hear an appeal of this case. as a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. we may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of wholesale aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products. some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. these and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. restrictions on the products we are able to sell could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. if additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. if these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. such events could adversely affect our business. 22 we may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. we may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. if we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company or division personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. in addition: the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could materially and adversely affect our business; our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. our credit agreement places restrictions on our business. we have a senior secured debt financing facility with a group of lenders. our total outstanding indebtedness (including bank financing, letters of credit, and notes payable in connection with acquisitions) as of december 31, 2011 was $991.4 million. the credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions and requires that we satisfy certain financial and other covenants. the failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. a default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. if this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facility or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. our future capital needs may require that we seek debt financing or additional equity funding that, if not available, could cause our business to suffer. we may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. from time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. however, the [recent] turmoil in the credit markets has resulted in tighter credit conditions, which could affect our ability to raise additional funds. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. if we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. if we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. 23 our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the special note on forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k. accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. these fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline. fluctuations in the prices of metals or shipping costs could adversely affect our financial results. all of our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. after we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. in addition, we receive crush only vehicles from other companies, including oems, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. the prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. in addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. to the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. the cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases may also decrease as a result of falling scrap metal and other metals prices. however, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. the price of steel is a component of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. we incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of whom are located in asia. if the cost of steel or freight rose we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. if we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. in the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. as of december 31, 2011, our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $1.5 billion. for further discussion of our annual impairment test, see goodwill impairment in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7 in this annual report on form 10-k. if the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines, or the number of cars being repaired declines, our business could suffer. because our business depends on vehicle accidents for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of wholesale recycled products, factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the congestion of traffic, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, the effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, and the condition of roadways, impact our business. in this regard, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. to the extent oems develop or are mandated by law to install new accident avoidance systems, the number and severity of accidents 24 could decrease. moreover, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline and the number of miles driven to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options, and this also could lead to a decline in accidents. in addition, the number of new automobiles sold annually in the u.s. has dropped since 2007 compared to the average number of new vehicles sold annually from 1999 through 2006. this could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents. in addition, the average age of vehicles has been increasing, and insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair older vehicles. governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. when we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. there can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. if we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. if we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. if we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. we rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. some of the information technology systems and communication systems we use for management of our facilities and our financial functions are leased from or operated by other companies, while others are owned by us. in the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages of these or our own systems for whatever reason, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. in addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. in the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. if we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. we use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. in addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, 25 air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. we are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. if we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. these laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we could be subject to product liability claims. if customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. the successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies that could be named as defendants in such lawsuits. the existence of claims for which we must defend and indemnify insurance companies could negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. regulations that may be issued under the anti-car theft act could harm our business. in 1992, congress enacted the anti-car theft act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. the purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. in january 2009, the u.s. department of justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. the portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any covered major part. the department of justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. however, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on automotive parts recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. it would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may further discourage the use of recycled products by such shops. future adjustments to contingent purchase price related to acquisitions could materially affect our results. from time to time we acquire companies with a component of the purchase consideration being delayed and the payment thereof contingent on certain performance or other factors (the contingent purchase price ). the accounting principles generally accepted in the united states require that we estimate the amount of the contingent purchase price at the time we complete the acquisition. each subsequent reporting period (until the contingent purchase price is either paid or no longer potentially payable), we are required to re-evaluate the estimated amount of remaining contingent purchase price that is likely to be paid. if the revised estimate of the future contingent purchase price is higher than the amount accrued, then the difference must be recorded and charged to the income statement in that period. if the revised estimate of the future contingent purchase price is lower than the amount accrued, then the accrual is reduced and the difference is credited to income for the 26 period. because some of these payments would not be deductible for tax purposes, it is possible that the expense (or income) would not be tax-effected on our income statements. these adjustments, if required, could be material to our future results of operations. we operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. we have operations in the u.k., canada and mexico. we are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we purchase inventory in different currencies than we denominate our sales, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. in addition, mexico is currently experiencing a heightened level of criminal activity that could affect our ability to maintain our supply of certain aftermarket products. risks relating to our common stock and financial structure future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. we and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, securities ) in the future. we may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. we cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. the anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. our incorporation under delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facility, where interest rates are tied to the prime rate, the london interbank offered rate, or the canadian dealer offered rate. in march 2008, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. these contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching effective and 50 maturity dates to specific debt instruments. all of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (jp morgan chasebank, n.a., bank of america, n.a., and rbs citizens, n.a.) and are denominated in currency that matches the underlying debt instrument. net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts will be included as adjustments to interest expense in our consolidated income statement. as of december 31, 2011, we held seven interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $520 million of u.s. dollar-denominated notional amount debt, &pound;50 million of pound sterling-denominated notional amount debt, and cad $25 million of canadian dollar-denominated notional amount debt. in total, we had 69% and 76% of our variable rate debt on our credit facility at fixed rates at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. these swaps have maturity dates ranging from october 2013 through december 2016. these contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2011, the fair market value of our swaps was a liability of $10.6 million. the value of such contracts is subject to changes in interest rates. at december 31, 2011, we had unhedged variable rate debt of $279.2 million. using sensitivity analysis to measure the impact of a 100 basis point movement in the interest rate, interest expense would change by $2.8 million over the next twelve months. to the extent that we have cash investments earning interest, a portion of the increase in interest expense resulting from a variable rate change would be mitigated by higher interest income. we are also exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory as well as the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. as both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. however, there is typically a lag between the effect on our revenue from metal price fluctuations and inventory cost changes. therefore, we can experience positive or negative margin effects in periods of rising or falling metal prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. during the first quarter of 2010, the steep increase in metals prices contributed to higher margins as we sold off lower cost inventory acquired in late 2009. the continuing increase in metal prices throughout 2010 and 2011 contributed to increased revenue during the year ended december 31, 2011. if market prices were to fall at a greater rate than our salvage acquisition costs, we could experience a decline in gross margin rate. additionally, we are exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products from foreign countries. the majority of our foreign inventory purchases are with manufacturers based in taiwan. while our transactions with manufacturers based in taiwan are conducted in u.s. dollars, changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the taiwan dollar might impact the purchase price of aftermarket products. our aftermarket operations in canada, which also purchase inventory from taiwan in u.s. dollars, are further subject to changes in the relationship between the u.s. dollar and the canadian dollar. our recently acquired aftermarket operations in the united kingdom also source a portion of their inventory from taiwan, as well as from other european countries and china, resulting in exposure to changes in the relationship of the pound sterling against the euro and the u.s. dollar. with our acquisition of ecp in the fourth quarter, we began hedging our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations for certain of our purchases for our u.k. operations. as of december 31, 2011, we held foreign currency forward contracts on a notional amount of 10.4 million and $1.5 million. the fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2011 was immaterial. we do not currently attempt to hedge our foreign currency exposure related to our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in our north american operations, and we may not be able to pass on any price increases to our customers. other than a portion of our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in the u.k., we do not attempt to hedge our foreign currency risk related to our foreign operations. under the terms of our amended and restated 2011 credit agreement, we have amounts outstanding against our revolver facility denominated in pounds sterling for &pound;67.0 million and canadian dollars for cad $36.3 million as of december 31, 2011. we have elected not to hedge the foreign currency risk related to these borrowings as we generate pound sterling and canadian dollar cash flows that can be used to fund debt payments. 51